<top>
<num> 51
<title> Airbus Subsidies
<relevant> The Senate Finance Committee voted 18-0 today to recommend confirmation of attorney Carla Hills as U.S. trade representative, a job she said she would use to open global markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``You have done well and you have answered with more specifics than I have normally heard from a person being confirmed,'' Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, told Mrs. Hills as the panel prepared to vote. ``They usually fudge their answers more.'' Mrs. Hills also vowed that she and her attorney husband would each take measures to make certain that she would never be faced with a conflict of interest in her new role as the nation's top trade negotiator. She said she would divest herself of any business ties that could raise such a problem. Mrs. Hills stressed that she would ``not hesitate to act when necessary and appropriate to fight unfair trade practices of foreign governments.'' ``Retaliation cannot be the goal of our policy,'' she said. ``In fact, it signals the failure of our efforts to open foreign markets. But the credible threat of retaliation provides essential leverage in our market-opening efforts. Thus, actual retaliation will be used, albeit reluctantly, to preserve the credibility of of this threat.'' At another point, Mrs. Hills said she would prefer to settle trade dispute with a handshake and a deal. But she said that when negotiations fail to do the job she will not hesitate to retaliate and open markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' Mrs. Hills, a Californian, served in the Ford administration as secretary of housing and urban development. She has been practicing law in Washington since then. When she was named to the trade representative's post, Bentsen issued a statement saying he had hoped for someone with more experience in problems of global markets. Before the committee, however, Mrs. Hills impressed senators with her detailed knowledge of complex issues ranging from plywood trade between the United States and Canada to American complaints about European government subsidies for the jetliner manufacturer Airbus Industrie. ``I think you are going to be a terrific trade representative,'' Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., told her. She also made a point of living up to her advance billing by supporters as a tough negotiator. ``Make no mistake,'' declared Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., ``this is a gentle lady, but this lady has the guts of a lion.'' ``We have to have our agreements enforced,'' Mrs. Hills testified. ``And where our partners are violating our agreements we must take action.'' ``Were I to say one thing to the Japanese today, it is: we must have results,'' she said at another point.
<relevant> A Senate committee recommended Friday that attorney Carla Hills be confirmed as U.S. trade representative after she assured lawmakers she would fight to open global markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``We have to have our agreements enforced,'' said Mrs. Hills before the Senate Finance Committee voted 18-0 to recommend confirmation. ``And where our partners are violating our agreements we must take action,'' she added. President Bush's nomination of the Washington attorney and former housing and urban development secretary now goes to the full Senate for a vote on confirmation. No date has been set. Mrs. Hills would succeed Clayton K. Yeutter, who has been tapped by Bush for secretary of agriculture, in the job of top U.S. trade negotiator. Before the committee, Mrs. Hills sought to dampen concern that she could become vulnerable to conflict-of-interest charges because she and her attorney husband, Roderick Hills, have represented foreign law clients. ``Let me address the question of potential conflicts of interest right away,'' she said. ``There are none.'' She promised that she and her husband would divest themselves of any business interests that could present such a conflict and that she would keep hands off any cases involving her former clients. Senators seemed satisfied. ``I think you're going to make a terrific trade representative,'' Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV, D-W.Va., said. A witness who appeared briefly before the panel, however, Anthony Harrigan, president of the U.S. Business and Industrial Council, argued that her involvement with foreign clients made it impossible for Mrs. Hills to avoid a conflict. Several lawmakers took issue with him. Mrs. Hills told the committee that she would prefer to open foreign markets with negotiations and a handshake. But she added that she would seek to do so ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``Retaliation cannot be the goal of our policy,'' she said. ``In fact, it signals the failure to open foreign markets. But the credible threat of retaliation provides essential leverage in our market-opening efforts. Thus, actual retaliation will be used, albeit reluctantly, to preserve the credibility of this threat.'' Bush's choice of Mrs. Hills initially brought a statement from Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, that he had hoped for someone with experience in international markets for the post. Bentsen had a more enthusiastic response when she appeared Friday before his committee. ``You have done well and you have answered with more specifics than I have normally heard from a person being confirmed,'' Bentsen said. ``They usually fudge their answers more.'' She discussed complex trade issues ranging from plywood exports to European government subsidies for the Airbus Industrie jetliner manufacturer. Supporters of Mrs. Hills have been assuring lawmakers that she has the toughness to represent America in difficult trade battles. ``Make no mistake,'' said Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., ``this is a gentle lady, but this lady has the guts of a lion.'' Her tough-minded style found encouragement among panel members, with Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., saying he found ``a touch of naivete'' in Bush's vow to work for ``a kinder and gentler'' America. ``The world is not necessarily kinder and more gentle when it comes to international trade,'' Baucus said. ``There's a state of near economic war.''
<relevant> Cathay Pacific Airways announced Tuesday that it has placed a firm order with Airbus Industrie for 10 A330-300 aircraft and has taken options on another 10 of the wide-body planes. The firm order is worth about $1.1 billion, and if all the options are exercised, the order would total about $2.2 billion, the Hong Kong airline said. The first of the planes will be delivered in January 1995, with delivery scheduled to be completed in 1997. The purchase is the largest single Airbus order by a Far Eastern airline, Cathay Pacific said. Airbus Industrie is a European aircraft-making consortium sponsored by the governments of Britain, France, West Germany and Spain. ``This huge investment demonstrates Cathay Pacific's commitment to Hong Kong and our confidence in the territory up to and beyond 1997,'' Cathay Pacific Chairman David Gledhill said, referring to the year when Hong Kong is scheduled to change from a British colony to part of mainland China. ``It also reflects our confidence in continued growth in the marketplace in Hong Kong and the Asian region.''
<relevant> Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter says U.S. negotiators held the line during trade talks in Geneva last week, regardless of how the final agreement is worded. Moreover, he said, the U.S. export subsidy program _ which provides reduced prices for selected commodities in certain overseas markets _ was a key factor in putting leverage into the negotiations, particularly in getting approval from the European Economic Community. The EEC had balked at the earlier U.S. insistence that all trade-distorting agricultural subsidies be eliminated over the long haul. The agreement reached in Geneva by more than 100 countries calls for a ``substantial progressive reduction'' in such subsidies. Yeutter, in an interview Monday with a group of reporters, said the Europeans objected to earlier language calling for the ``elimination'' of the subsidies and later to a modified ``ratcheting'' down of them. Asked if the final language represented backtracking on the part of the United States in its quest to do away with trade-distorting subsidies and other practices, Yeutter replied: ``I don't consider it backtracking at all.'' He maintained that there is no practical difference between ``elimination'' or ``ratcheting'' or the accepted ``substantial progressive reduction'' of subsidies, regardless of what some European leaders may feel. ``They may have their own reasons for articulating the outcome of the meeting as they have,'' Yeutter said. ``Obviously, everyone will go home and, to some degree, at least, articulate their own interpretation in a way that fits their own particular needs.'' The accord reached in Geneva provides a framework for further discussions under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, a four-year effort called the Uruguay Round of talks to liberalize global trade. The current GATT round will conclude at the end of 1990. As part of the Geneva agreement, participants agreed to an overall freeze on farm supports and import barriers through 1990. Yeutter said the U.S. goal is to gain long-term accord on the future of agricultural trade and that the short-term agreement reached in Geneva, while acceptable, was no big challenge for U.S. negotiators. Some American farm leaders, including Dean Kleckner of the American Farm Bureau Federation, had urged Congress to proceed writing a new general farm bill on an assumption that little progress could be expected under the GATT talks. Yeutter said he had no objection to Congress proceeding with a new farm bill to replace the 1985 law that will expire next year. And Yeutter denied that he had favored going slow on legislation until it was clearer how the GATT talks would shape up. ``Somehow that got misinterpreted ... because that's not really what I meant at all,'' Yeutter said. ``Assuming that (GATT) negotiations are a success, the 1990 farm legislation will have to be modified accordingly in 1991,'' he said. ``But I never meant to indicate that we shouldn't have full-scale farm legislation in 1990.'' On the matter of U.S. export subsidies used in the Export Enhancement Program, or EEP, Yeutter said it is ``our view that we are not constrained on EEP expenditures.'' Yeutter said further that he still favors Congress removing the lid on EEP spending so that the United States can match the unrestrained export subsidies of the Europeans. The program, he said, was a major factor in reaching the agreement in Geneva last week, along with aggressive negotiating and general leverage. ``In the absence of this combination of leverage _ with the EEP program providing a great deal of that leverage _ we very likely would not have an agreed framework in Geneva today,'' Yeutter said. In a written statement later, Yeutter repeated his earlier insistence that the United States ``will continue to aggressively seek elimination of trade-distorting measures'' during the remainder of the Uruguay Round. A background sheet said that in the short-term the United States ``in a general way'' is committed not to increase price support and protection for American farmers. Specifically, it said, ``We are committed not to intensify market access barriers or raise support prices to producers, subject to the condition that the commitment be consistent with existing legislation.'' The paper added: ``Our assessment is that this will not require us to do anything differently from what we are now doing. For 1990, our 1985 farm legislation requires cuts in some support prices.''
<relevant> The Bush administration says no final decisions have been made on which countries should be targeted for possible retaliation because of unfair trading practices, but other sources say Japan and the European Community are sure to be on the list. Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon, said Friday he had learned that the Economic Policy Council, chaired by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, was recommending to President Bush that the administration include Japan on the list for its barriers to the sale of American wood products. The list is expected to be released perhaps as early as Tuesday. The New York Times reported Friday that the Japanese would likely be cited for failing to open their market to the sale of U.S. supercomputers. The newspaper said that the 12-nation European Community could possibly be included as well for government subsidies to Airbus, the government-backed aircraft manufacturer. The newspaper said that Brazil and India were also being considered for including on the list of priority nations because companies in both countries are allowed to pirate U.S. patents, copyrights and trademarks. Christina McCowan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, refused to comment on the paper's list of countries other than to say that the final list of countries and products had yet to be determined. At the White House, deputy presidential spokesman B. Jay Cooper said that the matter was still ``under interagency review. It has not gone to the president yet.'' Under the Omnibus Trade Act of 1988, the administration must issue by May 28 a list of countries that maintain persistent trade barriers that impede American sales. Those countries would be targeted for intensive negotiations over the next 18 months with the threat of retaliation against their exports to the United States if no agreement is reached to remove the barriers. While the list must be submitted to Congress by Ms. Hills, the decision on what countries and products to include will be made by Bush. The administration has been under heavy congressional pressure to name Japan to the list because of that country's huge trade surplus with the United States, which last year totaled $52 billion, 44 percent of the $119.8 billion total U.S. trade deficit. The compilation of a priority list of countries was mandated by the massive rewrite of the country's trade law which Congress passed last year. The provision, known as Super 301 for the section containing the requirement, has turned out to be the most controversial provision in the 1,000-page law. It has triggered sharp disagreement even within the administration with the president's chief economic adviser, Michael Boskin, warning that vigorous enforcement of the provision ran the risk of counter-retaliation by other countries which could plunge the world into a global recession. Both South Korea and Taiwan figured prominently in an initial list of 34 countries with barriers against U.S. products which Ms. Hills issued three weeks ago. It is from that list that the final priority list of negotiating targets will be drawn up. A congressional source, who spoke on condition his name not be used, said there was a good likelihood that South Korea and Taiwan would be kept off the final list because of concessions they have already made. On Thursday, Ms. Hills announced that South Korea had agreed to a number of market-opening actions which the United States had been seeking. In addition, the trade representative's office announced Friday that Korea had agreed to open its market to imports of many agricultural products, ranging from poultry parts to bourbon, in three stages between July 1989 and January 1991. Ms. Hills called the agreement ``a positive first step'' but said many U.S. products still would be restricted or banned in Korea. ``I am prepared to take action on these products if Korea's liberalization process does not continue,'' she said.
<irrelevant> Braniff Inc. on Wednesday announced a bold stroke designed to put the regional airline in closer competition with the nation's major carriers, saying it will acquire 50 Airbus Industrie A320 planes and has options to get another 50 in a deal valued at up to $3.5 billion. The deal could nearly triple the fleet size of Braniff, a carrier with 53 jets that has endured three changes of ownership, a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, a major recapitalization and the transfer of its major operations to Kansas City from Dallas in the past six years. The airline has vowed to become a more competitive force in the industry. ``Today's announcement, I think, takes us a giant step forward toward making that goal a reality,'' William McGee, Braniff's chairman, told a news conference in New York. The move also represents one of the largest single orders for jets produced by Airbus, a European aircraft consortium that has emerged as a major competitor against the U.S. giants of the industry, Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. The Airbus A320 is a 150-seat, highly efficient aircraft used widely to replace aging jets, which requires only two pilots in the cockpit rather than the customary three. It was unclear how Braniff's acquisition of these planes would affect previously disclosed plans to acquire 23 Boeing 737s from AMR Corp., parent of American Airlines. ``It's a sizable infusion of new capacity in Braniff,'' said Robert Joedicke, an airline analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. ``It will certainly allow Braniff to rationalize and modernize their fleet and be much more competitive.'' Braniff currently operates 25 Boeing 727s, 10 Boeing 737s and 18 BAC-111s, built by British Aerospace PLC. Last June, investment group BIA-COR Holdings Inc. acquired Dallas-based Braniff for $100 million from Dalfort Aviation Inc., which is owned by the Pritzker family of Chicago. Through the investor group, PaineWebber Inc. controls a majority stake in the airline. The group appointed five top executives from Piedmont Airlines to manage Braniff. McGee, who had been Piedmont's chairman, helped build that airline into the nation's ninth-largest carrier, and one of the most profitable airlines, before it was acquired by USAir Group Inc. in 1987. Kevin Murphy, who follows the industry for Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., suggested that the current team at Braniff could be beefing up the airline in preparation for selling it. ``Our principal objective is to grow Kansas City,'' McGee told the news conference, referring to Braniff's main hub. He said the airline may introduce international service from Kansas City as well as first class service on existing flights. McGee said he expects Braniff to join the ranks of the airline majors _ as measured by $1 billion or more in annual revenue _ within a year and a half. The carrier should become profitable by the end of this year, the Braniff chief projected. Another airline analyst, who asked not to be identified, said Braniff needs to guard against getting too big _ the predicament which prompted its bankruptcy in 1982. ``You don't try to dance with the elephants,'' he said. McGee confirmed reports that the deal includes 16 planes originally intended for Pan Am Corp., which recently decided to scrap an order of A320s in exchange for a $115 million payment from Airbus. Pan Am had a firm order for 16 of the aircraft and an option on 34 more. In a separate statement Wednesday, Pan Am also confirmed that it had transferred the Airbus order to Braniff and announced that it will buy up to four new Airbus A310-300 long-range planes instead. ``While the A320 is a fine aircraft, our current route structure and our near-term scheduling plans do not require introduction of this aircraft type at this time,'' Pan Am Chairman Thomas G. Plaskett said. Engines for the Airbus planes, which are included in the price, will be supplied by IAE International Aero Engines, a consortium of U.S., British, West German, Japanese and Italian engine makers which is based in East Hartford, Conn. The U.S. partner is Pratt &amp; Whitney Aircraft of East Hartford. The deal would be worth the $3.5 billion only if Braniff exercises options to acquire all 100 planes. Airbus will sell the first 42 planes to a financing group, which will in turn lease them to Braniff. Airbus will have to make its own financing arrangements for the other eight in the first group of 50. The members of the financing group are GPA Group Ltd. of Shannon, Ireland, an aircraft leasing company which has an option to buy 10 percent of Braniff; Airbus; and the engine supplier, IAE.
<irrelevant> Braniff Inc. announced a bold stroke designed to put the regional airline in closer competition with the nation's major carriers, saying it will acquire 50 Airbus Industrie A320 planes and has options to get another 50 in a deal valued at up to $3.5 billion. The deal announced Wednesday could nearly triple the fleet size of Braniff, a carrier with 53 jets that has endured three changes of ownership and a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. The move also represents one of the largest single orders for jets produced by Airbus, a European aircraft consortium that has emerged as a major competitor against Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. Borden Inc. put corporate raiders on notice that if an unwanted buyer tries to chop up the food and chemical giant, Borden's 25 top managers will quit en masse under an unusual takeover defense. ``We think any potential raider would think twice about losing that group at once,'' R.J. Ventres, Borden's chairman, said Wednesday. Borden already has a ``poison pill'' plan designed to fend off unwanted suitors. General Motors Corp. Chairman Roger Smith says the world's largest automaker expects to post a record profit for 1988. Speaking Wednesday at the annual auto show here, Smith declined to provide a specific figure. GM's previous record year was 1984, when the automaker posted earnings of $4.52 billion on sales of $83.89 billion. For 1987, GM had a profit of $3.55 billion on revenue of $101.78 billion. Smith also predicted the Big Three _ GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. _would earn a record $11 billion in 1988, but did not break it down by company. Conflicts built into the system of regulating savings institutions ought to be eliminated to help prevent a repeat of the current wave of S&amp;L failures, a top federal bank regulator said. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in commercial banks, said Wednesday the fund that insures S&amp;L deposits should be independent in the same way as his agency. Orders to U.S. factories for manufactured goods rose by a modest 0.3 percent in November, according to a government report that some economists said reflected continued but slower economic growth. The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that buyers placed orders worth a seasonally adjusted $227.7 billion during the month, up $630 million from October. Orders had risen 2 percent in October. The nation's chief tax collector has urged Americans to file returns early this year and said the IRS for its part will fully respect a new ``taxpayer bill of rights'' and try to provide filers better advice. Lawrence B. Gibbs, commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, said Wednesday that the taxpayer-rights bill is ``a good bill.'' The legislation requires the agency to fully inform taxpayers of their rights any time an audit is begun. Another provision extends the notice required before the IRS can seize property.
<irrelevant> European trade representatives say they will seek permission to slap stiff duties on U.S. imports of dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against sanctions against European products. Any such approval would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the European Economic Community sparked by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, an EEC spokesman, said Thursday that representatives of the 12 nations making up the Common Market trading bloc will be given a proposal calling for the retaliatory measures. The plan, drawn up by the bloc's executive body, the European Commission, will be offered to counter sanctions the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. American officials have raised the possibility of taking more actions against the Europeans if the trading bloc strikes back. Wegter said the proposal recommends imposing 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and walnut imports from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, Wegter said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, averaged $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The commission's proposal does not set a date for application of the tariffs but recommends they be put in place as soon as possible. The trade fight was set off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect.
<irrelevant> European officials tentatively agreed Thursday to slap stiff duties on imports of American dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against recent U.S. sanctions against European products. Representatives of the 12-nation European Economic Community left it to their nations' foreign ministers to formally approve the measures and set the date for application of the higher tariffs. The foreign ministers will meet Jan. 23 in Brussels. ``The hammer is raised, but it won't actually fall until the ministers decide, (giving) time for the Americans to show a little understanding,'' said an official of a member nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Formal approval of the sanctions would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the Common Market trading bloc, which was touched off Sunday by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. The United States retaliated against the meat ban by imposing, also on Sunday, higher tariffs on a variety of European products. Alan Holmer, deputy U.S. trade representative, said in a satellite broadcast from Washington that ``it's presidential decision'' whether the United States would take further retaliatory measures against any European sanctions. ``There would be very strong support in the U.S. government for taking that kind of action if we were to reach that point,'' he told foreign journalists in a program sponsored by the U.S. government. ``But frankly we hope we won't have to reach that point and that the (EEC) will not take any kind of counter-retaliatory steps in the next several weeks,'' he said. The European officials also tentatively decided to allow meat shipped from the United States before Sunday to enter the Common Market until the end of the month. Officials said it was hoped that the United States would allow a similar grace period for sanctioned products from Europe. Under the tentative plan, the EEC would impose 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and unshelled walnuts imported from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, he said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, registered an annual average of $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The trans-Atlantic conflict was set off by the EEC enforcement of the ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. ``The (community) has failed to present any evidence that a proper application of the growth-producing hormones in question pose any threat to human or to animal health,'' Holmer said. ``We as yet have seen no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the (EEC) hormone ban and as a result we feel it necessary to protect U.S. trade interests,'' he said. The meat ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, pork hams and shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect. Holmer reiterated that the United States would like the Common Market to turn the dispute over to a special GATT panel for resolution but that it has so far refused to do so. The Canadian government also has not gone along with the meat ban. Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina have agreed to ship meat from untreated cattle to Europe. EEC members are France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<irrelevant> The National Pork Producers Council has formally asked the U.S. government to impose import duties on pork products from Canada, claiming the Canadian meat is subsidized and competes unfairly with American hog farmers. Council President Ray Hankes said Thursday a petition was filed Jan. 4 with the U.S. International Trade Commission and the Commerce Department asking that countervailing duties be imposed on fresh, chilled and frozen pork products from Canada. State pork associations and a number of U.S. meat packing companies also signed the petition. A ruling on the council's petition is expected in about six months, he said. ``A countervailing duty would eliminate the unfair advantage Canadian farmers have over U.S. pork producers because the Canadian government subsidizes its hog production,'' Hankes said in a statement released here. ``Canadian pork producers can benefit from more than 20 potential subsidy programs.'' There has been an import duty on live hogs from Canada since July 1985, a move upheld by the U.S. Court of International Trade during a lengthy appeals process. But the American producers contend the import duty on live hogs doesn't prevent Canada from slaughtering its hogs and shipping the pork to U.S. markets. The Commerce Department ruled in 1985 the import duties on pork products were justified. The U.S. Court of International Trade, acting on an appeal by the Canadian Meat Council, overruled the Commerce decision. As a result, Canada has increased its shipments of pork into the United States by more than 52 percent since 1984, Hankes said. The council also said imports of Canadian pork have reduced the revenues of U.S. hog producers by as much as $3.37 per 100 pounds of hogs marketed in the first nine months of 1988, according to a study by economist Glenn Grimes of the University of Missouri. Overall, the imports from Canada were said to cost American producers as much as $697 million in lost revenues last year. The Agriculture Department said imports of Canadian pork products in 1988 totaled a carcass weight equivalent of 440.2 million pounds through Dec. 3, according to Canadian government figures. That compared with 501.5 million pounds for all of 1987 and 313.9 million pounds in 1984. Kevin Bost of the department's Economic Research Service said in a telephone interview the countervailing duties on live hogs from Canada have trimmed the imports sharply, from more than 1.3 million head in 1984 to around 650,000 to 700,000 head last year. Shipments may be around 700,000 head in 1989, he said. According to USDA figures, American hog farmers produced around 15.6 billion pounds of pork in 1988, an estimate of carcass weights after slaughter. The forecast calls for a slight increase this year. The Agriculture Department says private exporters have sold the Soviet Union an additional 390,000 metric tons of U.S. wheat at subsidized prices. Melvin E. Sims, general sales manager for the department's Foreign Agricultural Service, said Thursday the wheat was part of 2 million tons authorized Dec. 23 under the Export Enhancement Program, or EEP. The wheat was bought under a long-term supply agreement with the United States, now in its sixth year. Sims said the wheat is for shipment in January and February. Counting some wheat left over from previous EEP arrangements, the Soviets have about 1.2 million tons still available under the program. The Soviet Union bought more than 9 million tons of wheat under EEP arrangements during the fifth year of the grain agreement. The pact expired last Sept. 30 but was later extended through Dec. 31, 1990. With the latest sales, the Soviets have bought about 760,000 tons of U.S. wheat for delivery in the sixth year of the pact. Sales also include 10.2 million tons of corn, along with some soybeans, soybean meal and sorghum. Only the wheat is subsidized, however. The EEP arrangement allows exporters to sell wheat and other designated commodities to specified countries at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition. The exporters then collect free government surpluses of grain or other products as bonuses, or subsidies. A metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. The 390,000 tons of wheat would be about 14.3 million bushels. Sims said the wheat sales will carry an average subsidy rate of $22.83 per ton, or about 62 cents per bushel. He said the bonuses on the 390,000 tons of wheat will be paid to five companies: Cargill Inc., 100,000 tons; Toepfer International Inc., 50,000; Ferruzzi USA Inc., 150,000; Richco Grain Ltd., 50,000; and Peavy Co., 40,000. Farmers have signed enough fragile land into a long-range conservation program to reduce annual soil losses by nearly 600 million tons, according to the Agriculture Department. Wilson Scaling, chief of the department's Soil Conservation Service, said Thursday that about 28 million acres have been contracted under the Conservation Reserve Program, or CRP. The goal is to retire 40 million to 45 million acres of highly erodible land from crop production by 1990. An agency spokeswoman, Leslie Wilder, said the 600 million tons of soil saved each year would be enough to cover one square mile, or 640 acres, to a depth of 429 feet. Under the program, farmers agree to take qualified land from crop production for 10 years. In return, they get federal assistance to plant the land in protective grass or trees and then draw annual rental payments. Those average around $49 per acre each year.
</top>
<top>
<num> 52
<title> South African Sanctions
<relevant> Widely ignored and usually docile, South Africa's black homelands are producing a new generation of leaders frustrated with limited autonomy and demanding a bigger role in shaping the political future. The authoritarian tribal chiefs who have long ruled the 10 homelands are being replaced or challenged by younger men, who view their territories as key partners in a united South Africa rather than isolated tribal reservations. ``The youth see the homelands differently than their parents, and it is not attractive to them,'' said Gen. Bantu Holomisa, the 33-year-old military ruler of Transkei. Transkei in 1976 was the first homeland to become independent from South Africa. ``We have been given a raw deal (by South Africa), and we won't settle for that again,'' Holomisa said in a recent interview in Umtata, Transkei's capital. No foreign governments recognize the homelands, including the four that South Africa classifies as independent _ Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda and Ciskei. Anti-apartheid activists dismiss the homelands as the illegitimate offspring of apartheid, which denies South Africa's black majority a voice in national affairs. The homelands have little industry, scarce arable land and are heavily dependent on South African financial aid. They are largely ignored both in South Africa and abroad, although they have more than 13 million residents _ about half South Africa's black population. Holomisa and other like-minded homeland leaders concede they lack leverage when they ask the South African government for a role in negotiating political change. But their goal of a unified South Africa directly challenges the foundation of the ethnic-based homeland system designed by Hendrik Verwoerd, South Africa's prime minister from 1958 to 1966. Verwoerd sought to make all black South Africans citizens of the remote homelands, granting them local autonomy while whites controlled the national economy and government. A conservative, older generation of tribal chiefs accepted self-government in the 1960s and 1970s, receiving financial benefits and the support of South African security forces. In return, the chiefs have neither instigated nor tolerated anti-apartheid activism. However, younger leaders see the territories only as an interim step on the road to a black government in South Africa. ``In our own territory, we have tried to ... promote our own agenda and unequivocally to destroy the (apartheid) structure,'' Enos Mabuza, the 49-year-old leader of the KaNgwane homeland, recently told the magazine Leadership. ``Our objective is that (KaNgwane) should be part of South Africa, if not now, then in the long term,'' he said. Mabuza has risked the wrath of the South African government by maintaining contacts with leaders of the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla movement, the largest organization fighting the government. He describes the ANC as ``a key actor, perhaps the most important actor'' among black political organizations. He also has refused ``independence'' for tiny KaNgwane, near South Africa's eastern border with Mozambique. The South African government would like all 10 homelands to become independent as part of its policy of racial separation. Critics say the government wants to fragment the black population and decrease its political clout. Only four homelands have opted for independence, and none has chosen that route since Ciskei in 1981. Several developments in the past year suggest growing anti-apartheid activism in the homelands and a general discontent with the system. _In KwaNdebele, voters in December overwhelmingly ousted all 16 Parliament members up for election, including Chief Minister George Mahlangu. The defeated incumbents supported independence plans for the small patch of arid territory outside Pretoria that is home to about 300,000 people. _In Bophuthatswana, dissident army officers launched a coup attempt Feb. 10 against President Lucas Mangope, who has led the homeland since it was declared independent in 1977. The group that kidnapped Mangope was led by an anti-independence politician, Peter Metsing, who remains at large. South African troops rescued Mangope and restored him to power hours after he was captured. _In Venda, a nominally independent homeland in the far north, students and workers staged a highly effective general strike in August to protest an alleged government cover-up of ritual murders. _In KwaZulu, homeland leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha political organization is locked in a power struggle with the now banned United Democratic Front, a nationwide coalition of anti-apartheid groups. More than 1,000 have died in black-on-black faction fighting around the cities of Pietermaritzburg and Durban in the past two years. Buthelezi, the best known homeland leader, is a critic of apartheid and was an ANC member years ago. But many activists view him as too conservative due to his current condemnation of the ANC and his refusal to support confrontational tactics such as economic sanctions, consumer boycotts and strikes. In Transkei, Holomisa says he does not pursue contact with the ANC because it would invite economic punishment from the South African government. Nonetheless, he says ``there will never be genuine change without the ANC'' and other major anti-apartheid groups. Holomisa stresses that many of Transkei's most pressing problems are economic, not political. Located on the Indian Ocean coast, Transkei is a visually spectacular collection of rolling hills, winding rivers, and waterfalls. But 95 percent of the people live in impoverished rural settlements, and 80 percent are illiterate. Infant mortality is high, and life expectancy is low. Most men who have jobs work outside the homeland and either have long daily commutes or are far from their families most of the year. Because Transkei is not recognized internationally, it receives no economic aid except from South Africa. ``South Africa's racial policies have hurt us,'' said Holomisa. ``But international sanctions also make us suffer. There are human problems here that can't be wished away by pretending we don't exist.''
<relevant> Mrs. Thatcher was given to bluntly reminding her fellow Europeans in NATO or the European Economic Community of their reliance on U.S. military and diplomatic power. This has revived complaints that the British cling to old trans-Atlantic ties and are unenthusiastic Europeans. Reagan's style provoked amusement, concern or jibing among British opposition parties and in newspapers. But not even in strict confidence would Thatcher aides utter a word of criticism of the president. Reagan and Thatcher have disagreed on economic issues like the U.S. deficit, and she had misgivings about the missiles deal. But they're obviously fond of each other, call each other Ron and Margaret, and share some basic instincts, like their faith in the free market and a strong defense, and their hatred of socialism. ``You have restored faith in the American dream,'' Mrs. Thatcher told Reagan last summer when he paid a farewell presidential visit to Britain. He said of the British leader who has been in office throughout his two terms: ``We're very good friends and it is a friendship I treasure very much.'' WASHINGTON _ The Reagan administration looked as if it was going to come up empty on its southern Africa policies until Chester Crocker, the assistant secretary of state, pulled out an 11th hour peace agreement on Angola. Until Crocker, a former Georgetown University professor, helped negotiate the peace agreement last month, he was best known as the architect of the administration's policy of ``constructive engagement.'' It called for the United States to use diplomatic pressure to force the white-ruled government of South Africa to change its policies of racial segregation, called apartheid.. ``Constructive engagement,'' no longer part of the State Department's official lexicon, was not a success. South Africa's policies remain virtually the same, with blacks denied political and social rights. In the United States, ``constructive engagement'' was the target of criticism and ridicule. And opponents of South Africa mounted a campaign which resulted in legislation in 1986 providing for economic sanctions against the white regime. They provided for a ban on new investments, a prohibition on the import of certain South African products and the suspension of South African commercial landing rights in the United States. Reagan's veto of the sanctions was overridden decisively. In Angola, where the Reagan administration and South Africa had supported rebels seeking to overthrow the Cuban-backed Marxist government, Crocker was more successful. After months of mediating delicate negotiations, South Africa, Cuba and Angola signed an agreement under which Angola pledged to send home 50,000 Cuban troops posted in Angola. At the same time, South Africa granted independence to South-West Africa, the continent's last colony. It will become the black-ruled nation of Namibia. In sum, it was a mixed record for the Reagan administration. _By Joan Mower WASHINGTON _ With U.S. encouragement, much of Latin America has undergone an unprecedented political transformation from dictatorship to democracy over the past decade but the region is nonetheless worse off economically now than when the generals were in charge. Reagan and Shultz have repeatedly hailed the democratic development in the hemisphere. Nonetheless, the same economic forces that swept the dictatorships from power during the 1980's are now threatening the emerging democracies. In some countries, the possibility of a military coup is not ruled out. As Reagan leaves office, the potential political and economic consequences of continued stagnation, partly the result of the region's huge foreign debt, could become one of the major hemispheric challenges for the new administration. President-elect Bush has called for a ``major review'' of existing policy on debt, the centerpiece of which is the so-called Baker plan, named for former Treasury Secretary and Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker III. The plan calls for economic reforms in the debtor countries and new public and private lending from the developed countries to meet their capital needs. But lending has been far below what had been expected when the plan was unveiled three years ago. Hemispheric countries over the past five years have shelled out more than $120 billion in debt repayments than they have received in new loans. Repayments on the region's $420 billion debt have meant that decades of hard-won gains for some countries have been wiped out. The region has been denied capital needed for investment and imports vital for production have been cut back sharply. Inflation and high unemployment are rampant. The list of countries which have made the shift to democracy or are in the process of doing so since 1979 is impressive: Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. But in virtually all of these countries, the popular base of the incumbent administrations has been eroding, reflecting the difficulty they have in dealing with the consequences of excessive borrowing in the past. Increasingly, Latin leaders see debt relief as perhaps the only way their countries can restore economic growth and to prevent yet another lost decade. _By George Gedda WASHINGTON _ Reagan's departure coincides with the start of a six-year term by a new Mexican president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, offer both countries a fresh opportunity for a more harmonious relationship. Reagan met frequently with former Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid and the two got along well but the same cannot be said for officials at the lower level. The two governments disagreed sharply over Central America, particularly Nicaragua, where Mexico was viewed by administration officials as perhaps the most stalwart non-communist backer of the leftist Sandinista government. Elliott Abrams, the outgoing assistant secretary of state for Latin America, concedes that the ``ideological tone'' of Mexico's foreign policy over the years left the administration ``very unhappy.'' U.S. officials angered Mexico by suggesting that official corruption was hampering that country's drug enforcement efforts. Mexico felt the Reagan administration failed to appreciate the sacrifices its security forces made to come to grips with the drug issue. Drugs remain a potent issue. Mexico is believed to provide 30 percent of the marijuana and 40 percent of the heroin reaching this country. Immigration is another divisive issue. The Reagan administration maintained that unwise Mexican economic policies forced millions of Mexicans to cross the border illegally. Mexico's view is that the immigration is the result of the U.S. demand for cheap labor, which it claims American policies fail to take into account. On the economic front, Mexico has maintained that paying the interest on its $107 billion foreign debt makes growth impossible. When Bush takes office, Mexico will be eagerly awaiting some sign that he will be amenable to a policy under which Mexico's debt servicing obligations might be matched to its payment capacity. Mexico has felt for years that its debt is the primary cause for a steady decline in Mexican living standards during the 1980s. _By George Gedda
<relevant> Michigan officials followed the letter, but not the spirit of divestiture when they went on an 11th-hour buying spree, snapping up South African-related stocks days before a ban on such investments took effect. Treasurer Robert Bowman ordered the December purchases on behalf of the state's $15.7 billion pension fund. They came just before a new law went into effect on New Year's Day and banned new investments of state pension funds in companies with South African ties. ``It makes me sick. It clearly goes against the spirit of the law,'' said Thea Todd, co-coordinator of the Michigan Leadership Coalition for South Africa Divestment. ``He didn't violate anything, that's clear, but if he were clearly in the spirit of it, he wouldn't go out and buy right at the end,'' said state Sen. Dan DeGrow, a sponsor of the measure designed to protest apartheid. The stock buy was part of $902 million in purchases made through a fund that buys in a single package all 478 stocks listed on the Standard and Poors 500 index, Bowman said, adding that three-fourths of the stocks listed in the index have no South Afican ties. A review of the index indicated at least 94 companies were on a list released by Bowman last week of companies believed to have South African ties and are now off-limits for state investments. ``The goal was not, of course, to buy companies that would ultimately be proscribed, but this is our last chance to buy the index fund,'' he said Wednesday. ``The spirit of the law wasn't violated because the treasurer didn't cherry pick any specific stocks and buy them. To violate the spirit of the law would be to go out and buy index firms we knew had South African ties,'' said Robert Kolt, Bowman's spokesman. Topping the list of stocks bought of companies with South African ties was IBM, $34,469,961 worth. Others included General Electric Co., $19,374,122; American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., $14,986,177; General Motors Corp., $12,514,653; Ford Motor Co., $12,075,821. Bowman said the state had been in and out of the Standard and Poors fund over the last 18 months and he decided in December to beef up its stake in the stock market. ``We moved money into the index fund. It's a way to move a lot of money into the stock market and bet on the stock market,'' Kolt said, adding that the treasurer's office has a responsibility under the law to maximize the return on its investments, as well as divest of South African stocks. Thomas Scott, a spokesman for Gov. James Blanchard, who endorsed the law, said Bowman's actions don't indicate the administration lacks commitment to divestiture. ``The governor expects and has no reason to believe otherwise that the divestiture law he and Treasurer Bowman pushed for will be carried out according to the full spirit and letter of the law,'' Scott said. The new law bars the pension fund from buying stock in companies that have ties to South Africa, and gives it five years to sell off stock in those companies, which totals $5 billion. The law also applies to 45 municipal pension funds.
<relevant> A group of black Americans vowed Monday to revitalize efforts to promote closer ties between the administration of President-elect George Bush and African nations. The African American Institute, meeting in Lusaka, sought a greater understanding of African problems in the United States, according to Randolph Nugent, the chairman of the institute's board of trustees. Nugent told about 175 conferees in a welcoming address that the institute believed U.S. administrations viewed Africa from a short-term perspective. ``Our aim is to help bring Americans and Africans together to help America take a long-term view of African problems,'' he said. Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda opened the four-day gathering by urging world nations to focus more attention on the African debt crisis. He cited burgeoning debt and South Afrca's policy of apartheid as the ``root cause'' of conflict and suffering on the continent of 550 million people. Kaunda said many of the world's most heavily indebted nations were in Africa but little was done by developed countries to offest their loan burden. Between 1985 and 1987, African nations relying on exports of raw materials for hard currency income lost an estimated $50 billion through depressed commodity prices on world markets, he said. He chided unspecified Western nations for failing to impose tougher trade sanctions against South Africa to end apartheid. Some Western leaders argue that sanctions would harden white South African resistance to change and hurt blacks the most. Among conferees from the United States and 17 African nations was the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., chairman of the African Affairs subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is expected in Lusaka on Tuesday. The New York-based African American Institute holds a convention in Africa every two years.
<relevant> Attackers wielding knives, clubs and shotguns killed five men outside the Indian Ocean port city of Durban, police said today. Another group of blacks tossed firebombs and raided a home outside the city of Pietermaritzburg, stabbing to death a 17-year-old woman and injuring a 20-year-old woman, police said. Both black-on-black attacks occurred in Natal province, where more than 1,000 blacks have been killed in faction fighting in the past 18 months. The sketchy police unrest report, which covers incidents from the previous 24 hours, did not release any additional details. The main combatants in the faction fighting are Inkatha, a political organization headed by Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and the United Democratic Front, the nation's largest anti-apartheid coalition. The front was banned in February. Buthelezi also opposes apartheid, but many United Democratic Front supporters view him as too conservative because he participates in the government's homeland system and refuses to endorse confrontational tactics such as economic sanctions, boycotts and protests. Buthelezi accuses the front of supporting the bombing and sabotage campaign waged by the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla movement. Under apartheid, South Africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools and districts.
<irrelevant> European trade representatives say they will seek permission to slap stiff duties on U.S. imports of dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against sanctions against European products. Any such approval would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the European Economic Community sparked by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, an EEC spokesman, said Thursday that representatives of the 12 nations making up the Common Market trading bloc will be given a proposal calling for the retaliatory measures. The plan, drawn up by the bloc's executive body, the European Commission, will be offered to counter sanctions the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. American officials have raised the possibility of taking more actions against the Europeans if the trading bloc strikes back. Wegter said the proposal recommends imposing 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and walnut imports from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, Wegter said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, averaged $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The commission's proposal does not set a date for application of the tariffs but recommends they be put in place as soon as possible. The trade fight was set off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect.
<irrelevant> European officials tentatively agreed Thursday to slap stiff duties on imports of American dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against recent U.S. sanctions against European products. Representatives of the 12-nation European Economic Community left it to their nations' foreign ministers to formally approve the measures and set the date for application of the higher tariffs. The foreign ministers will meet Jan. 23 in Brussels. ``The hammer is raised, but it won't actually fall until the ministers decide, (giving) time for the Americans to show a little understanding,'' said an official of a member nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Formal approval of the sanctions would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the Common Market trading bloc, which was touched off Sunday by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. The United States retaliated against the meat ban by imposing, also on Sunday, higher tariffs on a variety of European products. Alan Holmer, deputy U.S. trade representative, said in a satellite broadcast from Washington that ``it's presidential decision'' whether the United States would take further retaliatory measures against any European sanctions. ``There would be very strong support in the U.S. government for taking that kind of action if we were to reach that point,'' he told foreign journalists in a program sponsored by the U.S. government. ``But frankly we hope we won't have to reach that point and that the (EEC) will not take any kind of counter-retaliatory steps in the next several weeks,'' he said. The European officials also tentatively decided to allow meat shipped from the United States before Sunday to enter the Common Market until the end of the month. Officials said it was hoped that the United States would allow a similar grace period for sanctioned products from Europe. Under the tentative plan, the EEC would impose 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and unshelled walnuts imported from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, he said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, registered an annual average of $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The trans-Atlantic conflict was set off by the EEC enforcement of the ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. ``The (community) has failed to present any evidence that a proper application of the growth-producing hormones in question pose any threat to human or to animal health,'' Holmer said. ``We as yet have seen no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the (EEC) hormone ban and as a result we feel it necessary to protect U.S. trade interests,'' he said. The meat ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, pork hams and shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect. Holmer reiterated that the United States would like the Common Market to turn the dispute over to a special GATT panel for resolution but that it has so far refused to do so. The Canadian government also has not gone along with the meat ban. Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina have agreed to ship meat from untreated cattle to Europe. EEC members are France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<irrelevant> The horrible deaths by poison gas of nearly 1 million soldiers in the trenches of World War I so shocked the world that in 1925 a group of nations agreed never to use such weapons again. But this week's Paris conference reviewing the agreement takes place with a clock grimly ticking. Each year, observers say, the list of countries owning and developing chemical weapons grows. And the use of such weapons lies in the not-so-distant past. Under strong international public pressure, the 1925 Geneva Protocol was reached banning the use of chemical weapons, and 118 countries signed up. Sixty-four years later, delegates at the conference are reviewing the violations of the ban over the years and discussing ways to give it meaning and teeth. The 1925 protocol covers only use. Most delegates here agree the world also needs to ban development, production and storage of toxic agents. They also agree some organization, maybe the United Nations, should be able to check that countries are abiding by the ban and that those violating it should be punished. The need for an expanded international agreement on chemical and biological arms has been recognized for a long time. Negotiators have been meeting periodically to come up with an accord for 17 years. When the last meeting in Geneva of the ad hoc committee on chemical weapons under the U.N. Conference on Disarmament closed April 28 last year, nothing was ready to sign. Optimists said a convention might be ready in another couple of years. President Reagan, speaking to the U.N. General Assembly last fall, called for the international conference. President Francois Mitterrand, speaking a few days later, agreed to host it. The 150 countries meeting in Paris hope they can find enough common ground by Wednesday's close of their five-day meeting to issue a final document sending a clear political message to the negotiators: The world wants a new accord. The United States and the Soviet Union admit to having thousands of tons in storage, but experts say at least 20 other countries either have poison arms or will before long. Countries that have chemical weapons sell them to others that don't, some experts at the meeting say. And possible customers include terrorist groups. ``Who wants chemical weapons?'' asked a U.S. expert, speaking on condition he not be named. ``I can't give you a list but I can give you a set of criteria: ``Anybody who's got a neighbor who has them. Anybody who has a resistence they want wiped out. Anybody with no chance of having nuclear weapons. There are 40 or 50 countries that meet that criteria,'' he said. Western officials say interest in developing toxic arms is keen in the Middle East. They say Iraq has used chemical weapons over the last five years and has more experience with toxic agents and developing ``delivery systems,'' than either the Soviet Union or the United States. Condemned by U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, the Iraqi use of deadly poison is only the most recent example of repeated violations. Others accused of breaking the agreement include Italy in Ethiopia, Japan in China, Egypt in North Yemen, the United States in Vietnam, the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, Libya in Chad and, if Nazi gas chambers are included, Germany in the death camps of World War II. Intelligence sources say other countries having chemical weapons include Syria, Iran, Israel, Egypt, North Korea, South Korea and Taiwan.
<irrelevant> The government on Friday applauded a Pentagon report calling this country's leading anti-apartheid group a terrorist organization. But the government also said it was confused by a report released by another U.S. agency with a contradictory view. The Defense Department report, released Wednesday, listed the outlawed African National Congress among 52 terrorist organizations worldwide. ``As far as the South African government is concerned, the Pentagon report correctly analyzes terrorism,'' said Foreign Minister Pik Botha. However, the U.S. Information Service in Pretoria released a statement from the State Department in Washington that contradicted the Pentagon report. ``The U.S. government has not determined that the ANC is a terrorist organization,'' said the statement prepared by the State Department's Africa Affairs Bureau. The State Department supported the ANC's aims of ending apartheid and establishing a democracy, but it disagreed with the ANC's use of violence, the statement said. Apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. Botha described the State Department statement as ``somewhat confusing.'' He added, ``Nevertheless, the State Department acknowledges that the ANC's (violent) methods are unacceptable, and this is the decisive issue.'' The Pentagon said its booklet, which included a foreword by President-elect George Bush, was prepared as a reference work _ not as a policy statement. The booklet has prompted headlines in South African newspapers and angry condemnations of the United States by some anti-apartheid activists and organizations. Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize laureate who says he supports the African National Congress' goals but opposes violence, said he was ``shocked and dismayed'' by the Defense Department report. In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman said the group was included in the book because authorities wanted to warn Americans of the danger from the ANC and other organizations around the world. The spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. Jim Kudla, said the book had been ``fully coordinated'' with the State Department. But within the State Department, counterterrorism officials disagreed with professional diplomats, who wrote the statement contradicting the the Pentagon report and who are concerned with maintaining ties to South Africa's black majority. The South African government banned the African National Congress in 1960, and the group began a sabotage campaign one year later. There have been 180 bombings in South Africa during the 31-month state of emergency, killing 35 people and injuring at least 665 of all races. The government says it will not negotiate with the group unless it renounces violence. The congress says it had no alternative but to take up arms after it was banned as a peaceful organization.
<irrelevant> The gathering of 149 nations to condemn chemical weapons showed, if nothing else, how the world order of a short time back has been stood on its head. The old divisions so familiar to world affairs _ East-West, North-South, First World-Third World _ have given way to a baffling new array of converging interests. Diplomats seasoned by the Cold War and the anti-colonial winds of change watched the five-day meeting in amazement. The Soviets, clear winners in the charm category, tweaked the Americans for a lack of openness. The Americans aimed their ire at a friendly foe, West Germany. Western allies fought openly over which of their companies sold chemicals to Iraq, Libya and Syria, all regarded as past or potential users of poison gas. Romania bolted its bloc, taking a position directly opposed to the Kremlin's. A Soviet official merely smiled philosophically as he explained that the Romanians refused to follow orders. While chief Soviet delegate Viktor Karpov beamed benignly at the cameras, U.S. correspondents aimed barbs at his American counterpart. Retired Gen. William Burns, head of the U.S. arms control agency, admitted not knowing about new chemical warheads included in the U.S. budget made public, by coincidence, during the conference. Iran, whose representatives spoke eloquent English, stood firm with the industrial West against Middle Eastern states one U.S. delegate described privately as ``the whackos.'' Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati echoed points made by the United States, the ``Great Satan,'' demanding in measured terms even more sanctions and condemnation of past acts than the Americans wanted. Although nations of the so-called non-aligned movement expressed token solidarity with the Arab League, hard-line Arabs had to back off linking bans on chemical and nuclear weapons for lack of real support. ``We're not buying that Arab League garbage,'' a Central American delegate said in private. ``You can't talk about a Third World and mean anything.'' Black Africans walked out again on R.F. Botha, the South African foreign minister, but this time Botha tossed away his speech and dramatically challenged them to admit in public their secret friendship with his country. Botha spoke of vaccines, health care, research and other aid his country provided, and asserted: ``My African brothers know this.'' He noted that agreements finally had been reached on independence for Namibia and South African withdrawal from Angola. Black Africans did not walk when those matters were settled, he said. ``We say no to hypoprisy,'' commented Foreign Minister Simeon Ake of Ivory Coast, the only black African to keep his seat. ``At least it gave Botha a chance to reveal his contacts.'' Under the ironies were signs of a world turning faster than many of its statesmen can measure. William Waldegrave, junior minister in Britain's Foreign Office, shrugged off the old distinctions in a chat with reporters: ``I am always confused over who is supposed to be First World or Third World when you start talking about rich Middle Eastern states.'' Most political analysts interviewed said the 109 speeches and secret negotiations showed old-style international dealings are poorly suited to a modern world. Countries condemned for spraying nerve gas on civilian populations directed the same rhetoric at chemical weapons as the those attacked. Everyone knew up to 30 nations at the meeting had chemical weapons but only the United States and the Soviet Union admitted having them. France, the host and arbiter of the moral tone, denied it firmly, despite the intelligence of its allies to the contrary. ``The problem,'' one Western analyst put it, ``is that you can't really say what you think: that there are responsible leaders and maniacs, and no international convention can differentiate among them.'' Several American delegates acknowledged that, despite the general tone and circuitous phrasing, their underlying concerns were specific: _Iraq had used poison gas to turn the tide of war against Iran and to terrorize its own Kurdish minority. Some other states seemed impressed by their success. _Syria had chemical warheads on Scud missiles directed at Israel, each capable of delivering deadly gas over a radius of a thousand yards. _Libya, helped by private West German companies among others, was completing a chemical weapons plant that could deliver toxic chemical agents to a broad range of terrorists. The Americans' concurrent goal, to focus attention on a new threat from Libyan leader Moammer Gadhafi, backfired by uniting the Arab League. A night of compromises produced a declaration with no mention of sanctions, export controls or verification. Lessons of the conference extended well beyond the subject at hand. Mainly, the old cliches and timeworn roles were falling away. At one point, a U.S. press officer introduced an American reporter to an arms negotiator who answered a broad range of questions, with hardly a pause to consider the implications of his remarks. Unlike most Americans at the meeting, the man was perfectly willing to be quoted. He was a Russian. Later, an American negotiator agreed with a point his Soviet rival had made, that the conference declaration was a political document with little specific or technical value. ``That's what we would say, if we could,'' he said, but explained that statements had to be cleared in Washington and some subjects were extremely sensitive. Then he added: ``But don't quote me.'' Mort Rosenblum has reported for The Associated Press for more than 20 years from Africa, Southeast Asia, Latin America and Europe. He is former editor of the International Herald Tribune and has written two books on international affairs.
</top>
<top>
<num> 53
<title> Leveraged Buyouts
<relevant> Japanese banks are expected to approve about $5 billion in loans to help finance the $24.53 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc., according to the Kyodo News Service. Quoting unnamed sources in the finance industry, Kyodo said the banks would lend about $500 million each to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., which bid $109 a share for RJR Nabisco in the biggest buyout in financial history. The Kyodo report named three of Japan's leading banks _ Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. and Sanwa Bank Ltd. _ and said other banks would respond favorably to their participation and agree to join the financing venture to a total of $5 billion. Spokesmen for leading banks indicated Thursday that the decision would be made sometime Friday. ``We are still looking at it,'' said a spokesman for Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, asking anonymity. The two other banks made similar comments. Kohlberg, Kravis had no comment from New York on Thursday. Last month, Henry Kravis, a principal of Kohlberg Kravis, visited Tokyo to try to persuade Japanese investors to help finance the purchase.
<relevant> Ten Japanese banks will lend a total of $5.1 billion to help finance U.S.-based Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co.'s buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc., a bank official said Tuesday. The loan, believed to be the largest ever by Japanese banks for such a transaction, was in line with industry expectations. The official who provided the figure insisted not being identified by name or bank, although his bank is one of the 10 involved in the deal. KKR will be using a total of $14 billion in bank loans to finance its record $24.53 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco. Henry Kravis, principal of KKK, has been meeting with several large Japanese banks here and in the United States over the past few weeks. Most of the 10 Japanese banks that will participate in the worldwide bank consortium reportedly approved their loans by Jan. 6, the deadline for receiving higher incentive returns. Mitsubishi Bank confirmed it had notified KKR by Jan. 6 of its intention to offer a loan, but a bank official, speaking on condition that he not be named, declined to specify the amount. Officials at other banks said they do not ordinarily provide details about their loan contracts. One banking source said: ``Each bank is directly in contact with KKR.'' Published reports have said 10 Japanese banks including Sanwa, Mitsubishi, Daiichi Kangyo, Fuji, Sumitomo, Japan Industrial Bank and Mitsui Trust Bank had notified KKR by Jan. 6 of their intention to offer loans for the buyout. Each agreed to lend between $350 million and $600 million, with the total reaching an estimated $5.15 billion, said the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, a leading economic newspaper. In its Saturday edition, it said a few other Japanese banks, including the Bank of Tokyo and Taiyo Kobe Bank, were expected to approve loans and notify KKR by Jan. 17, the final deadline. Participation of the second group would bring the total amount of Japanese loans to KKR to almost $6 billion, Nihon Keizai said.
<relevant> Philip Morris Cos.' $12.9 billion acquisition of Kraft Inc. leads a list of the largest corporate takeovers, buyouts and other restructurings completed in 1988, according to a Fortune magazine report. The biggest deal in history _ the $25 billion leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc. by the investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. _ was not included in the annual list because the buyout won't be completed until 1989. Also pending at year's end was Grand Metropolitan PLC's $5.7 billion takeover of Pillsbury Co., the magazine said in its report to be published in the Jan. 30 issue. Fortune said the total value of the 50 largest business deals last year was $111.8 billion, easily surpassing the $94.6 billion value of the 50 biggest deals in 1985, the previous record for the magazine's list. Last year's transactions provided at least $687 million in advisory fees to those overseeing the deals _ also a record for the list _ not counting commissions on related financing, Fortune said, citing public documents and other sources. Despite the publicity over the RJR Nabisco deal, Fortune said most of last year's takeovers and restructurings were done the old-fashioned way: not by corporate raiders wielding borrowed money, but by corporate managers eyeing expansion. The No. 2 deal last year was Canadian developer Robert Campeau's $6.5 billion acquisition of Federated Department Stores Inc., the year's biggest deal involving a foreign company, Fortune said. In third place was the $5.15 billion buyout of Farmers Group Inc., the California insurance company, by British tobacco-retailing conglomerate BAT Industries PLC. The No. 4 deal was the $5.09 billion acquisition of Sterling Drug Inc. by Eastman Kodak Co. In fifth place was Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp.'s $4.7 billion deal to pay a special dividend to stockholders of the railroad and natural resources company to fend off a takeover bid by the Henley Group. In sixth place was the Kroger Co.'s $3.9 billion deal to pay a special dividend to fight takeover bids for the supermarket chain from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Haft family. The No. 7 deal, the $3.6 billion buyout of papermaker Fort Howard Corp., was the only leveraged buyout in the top 10. In eighth place was the $3 billion acquisition of Triangle Publications Inc., which publishes TV Guide, by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. The No. 9 deal was the $2.8 billion stock buyback by UAL Inc., the parent company of United Airlines. In 10th place was the largest-ever U.S. acquisition by a Japanese company, Bridgestone Corp.'s $2.6 billion takeover of Firestone Tire &amp; Rubber Co.
<relevant> An investment group that specializes in employee-led corporate buyouts is poised to bid for troubled Eastern Airlines, a report published Thursday said. The Atlanta Constitution reported that Louis O. Kelso, a San Francisco lawyer and a leading promoter of employee buyouts, said the group is almost ready to approach the board of directors of Texas Air Corp., Eastern's parent. The group organized last October as Grandview Acquisition Corp., Among the investors involved in Grandview is former CBS Inc. President John Backe, the Constitution said. A spokeswoman for Kelso reached in New York said no one was available to comment on the report Thursday. Texas Air spokesman Art Kent declined to comment on the buyout effort, except to emphasize that Texas Air Chairman Frank Lorenzo has repeatedly said Eastern is not for sale. Eastern union officials also declined to discuss the buyout effort. ``It is very sensitive,'' said Charles E. Bryan, president of the 8,500-member Eastern unit of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. Kelso reportedly acknowledged that Grandview has yet to arrange all of the financing needed to buy Miami-based Eastern, which analysts have speculated could go for between $600 million and $800 million. Kelso told the Constitution he does not expect financing to be a problem, even though Eastern is nearly $2.5 billion in debt, is losing $1 million a day and has lost what were its two most valuable assets. Those assets included the System One computer reservation system, which is now a separate Texas Air subsidiary, and the Washington-New York-Boston shuttle, which is being sold to developer Donald J. Trump for $365 million. ``I think that Eastern can be structured in a way that it could be a good opportunity,'' said Kelso, who developed many of the financing methods now used in employee stock ownership plans, known as ESOPs. The degree of employee ownership envisioned by Grandview and the concessions that would be required of Eastern's workers has not been fully determined, said Kelso and others familiar with the effort. Eastern's unions have been seeking employee ownership of the airline for years. Kelso was involved in an unsuccessful ESOP effort in the months before Texas Air bought Eastern in late 1986. Eastern's unions have made no secret of their desire to force Lorenzo to sell the airline.
<relevant> The people who have made the leveraged buyout one of the most popular avenues for financing blockbuster corporate acquisitions are being asked to explain to Congress why their controversial methods should not be curtailed. Leveraged buyouts _ acquisitions made mainly with borrowed money that is repaid by the target company _ have made possible many of this country's biggest corporate purchases, such as the recent record-shattering $24.53 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc. by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Inc. But critics of LBOs contend the deals can cost jobs as new owners seek to cut costs at the suddenly debt-burdened companies. They also say taxpayers are helping finance LBOs through tax breaks given to buyers and that the higher debt burdens raise the risk that the acquired companies will fail. The criticism has increased over the past year, partly because of publicity surrounding the RJR Nabisco deal and other huge buyouts. Nine congressional committees plan hearings about LBOs, with the Senate Finance Committee scheduled to hold the first session on Tuesday. Some major LBO sponsors say the deals have not hurt the target companies or the taxpayer. ``If you get someone who is trying to do a very good job of analyzing what's going on, I think the analysis would lead you to conclude (LBOs are) a net positive,'' said Joseph L. Rice, a partner in the investment firm and LBO specialist Clayton &amp; Dubilier Inc. In a leveraged buyout, investors borrow heavily to buy out a company and pay off the debt with the target company's cash flow or the sale of its assets, including its divisions and subsidiaries. To improve a company's cash flow acquirers may cut its costs, and that can mean layoffs. Kohlberg Kravis _ the undisputed leader in the field _ contends that a study it undertook to counter its critics indicates the 15 firms it acquired through leveraged buyouts had a total employment increase of 37,000. Rice said although an LBO business might be pared down, ``by and large employment is either up or flat'' at companies Clayton &amp; Dubilier has acquired. He also said leveraged buyouts provided opportunities for people who otherwise could not afford to buy a company, and called the process ``the last great bastion for the entrepreneur in the United States today.'' But critics say the heavy borrowing needed to create those opportunities put a company and its lenders in jeopardy. Buyouts often financed are with junk bonds, higher-risk loans that pay a higher rate of interest. Critics point to Revco D.S. Inc., the large Ohio-based drugstore chain that went private in a $1.5 billion LBO in 1986 and last year filed for federal bankruptcy protection from its creditors after it failed to make a $46 million payment to junk bond holders. Cynthia Latta, an economist for Data Resources Inc. in Lexington, Mass., said the failure of LBO companies was a risk that could be realized if the economy slides into a recession and the companies no longer could generate the revenue to make their payments. But Rice said the higher debt levels of LBO companies generally have benefited stockholders and the economy. ``If you take a look at buyouts over an extended period of time, say for the last 20 years, you would conclude the businesses that have been bought have used a very significant amount of debt in their capital structure,'' he said. ``Many worldwide competitors have used debt for years and used it effectively.'' Opponents also want to rein in buyouts by amending the federal income tax laws, which currently give an acquirer a deduction for all interest payments. President Bush said recently a review of the tax laws might be in order to curb any abuses, but he would not advocate government action to put the brakes on takeovers. The Kohlberg Kravis study contends the firm's buyouts have not shortchanged the Treasury, and actually have added $2 billion to federal coffers, while Rice called buyouts ``a net tax-producer.'' Ms. Latta said the government did reap short-term benefits from a leveraged buyout, because stockholders tendering their shares to the acquirer paid capital gains taxes. But the government may be losing out through long-term tax benefits to the acquirer, she said. ``If there were no long-term tax gains for the company, they probably would not be doing it,'' she said.
<irrelevant> Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. would not confirm or deny reports that it has been studying MCorp's books in a possible bid to buy Texas' second-largest bank holding company, but one source says the presence of the leveraged buyout firm is no secret. ``I've talked to people from within the bank that substantiate that they're doing due diligence,'' Frank Anderson, an analyst for Stephens &amp; Co., said Tuesday. ``They're looking over the books. We were all surprised when we found out KKR is involved.'' President Reagan said he has decided against any oil import fee or other action to curb oil imports but conceded that ``the free world will become increasingly dependent on oil supplies from potentially insecure sources.'' The president said Tuesday that he acted on the recommendation of Commerce Secretary C. William Verity, who reported that import restrictions ``would not be cost effective and, in the long run, would impair rather than enhance national security.'' The newspaper Izvestia, which for decades thundered against capitalists in columns of small, gray type, has splashed on some green and opened its pages for the first time to foreign advertisers. Two pages of ads from European and U.S. companies were the first in a weekly effort ``to give Western businessmen the possibility to enter into direct dialogue with future Soviet partners who are trying to set up contacts with the foreign market,'' the government newspaper said Tuesday in a front-page announcement. CBS Records has agreed to buy Tree International Publishing, the world's largest country music publisher. New York-based CBS Records, the world's largest record company and a subsidiary of Japan's Sony Corp., is buying Tree for a reported $45 million to $50 million. The Ambassador Hotel, where Charlie Chaplin lived, Robert F. Kennedy died, Marion Davies rode a horse through the lobby and generations of stars entertained at the Cocoanut Grove lounge, has closed its doors. The last guests bid farewell Tuesday to the 68-year-old Wilshire Boulevard landmark. In May, the owners, the J. Myer Schine family, closed about three-quarters of the 500 rooms because they failed to meet fire standards, and more than $1 million was needed for earthquake-safety improvements. Wall Street opened for business in 1989 with a markdown Tuesday, as the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials fell 23.93 points to 2,144.64. The dollar skidded largely because of pessimism about the U.S. trade deficit. Bond prices fell sharply in a post-New Year's selloff incited by weakness in the dollar and forecasts of higher interest rates. On the commodities markets, coffee and cocoa futures prices rose sharply while prices for cotton, sugar and orange juice futures plunged; energy futures advanced; precious metals, grain, soybean, livestock and meat futures were mixed; and stock-index futures retreated.
<irrelevant> If you ever wonder why so much borrowed money can go into leveraged buyouts at such high interest rates, consider this: Most of it is tax-deductible. And if you wonder why Americans don't save more, consider that interest earned, even on piddling savings accounts at modest rates, is subject to income taxes. Take the idea a step further: Untaxed money for leveraged buyouts tends to push up interest rates, simply because borrowers will pay higher rates; moreover, such borrowing may diminish funds available for more productive corporate uses. Meanwhile, taxes on interesta connecting hub at Tokyo's Narita Airport. It flies nonstop to Tokyo from Los Angeles, San Francisco, Honolulu and New York's Kennedy Airport. ``Although O'Hare is the world's busiest airport, the Chicago metropolitan area is unable to take advantage of the growing markets of air transportation to Asia,'' Wolf said. ``The situation is unfair to the Chicago area and runs contrary to the interests of the United States,'' he said. Under United's proposal, it would fly nonstop from Chicago to Tokyo, and then on to Seoul, South Korea, Nagin said.
<irrelevant> Corporate takeover activity in the United States hit a record 3,310 completed transactions worth $282.4 billion last year, a leading financial information service reported Wednesday. Statistics compiled by IDD Information Services showed the 1988 level of takeover action rose 28.6 percent over the 1987 level and 14.3 percent over the $247.1 billion in transactions completed in 1986, the previous record year. IDD statistics also showed foreign investors, encouraged by a weaker dollar, snapped up 325 U.S. companies valued at $54.8 billion, a 30 percent increase over the $42.3 billion spent in 1987. British companies spent $20.7 billion on American firms, while Japanese investors increased their buying activity by 1,000 percent, spending $10.4 billion on 35 acquisitions in the United States. Canada was the third most active foreign country in the U.S. takeover market, buying 50 American companies valued at $9.9 billion. Leveraged buyout activity remained strong despite predictions of a slowdown in this debt-financed takeover tactic, IDD said. In a leveraged buyout, or LBO, a buyer borrows most of the purchase money and pledges as collateral the target company's assets, earnings or a combination of both. IDD said 119 LBOs were completed in 1988 with a value of $37.7 billion. In addition, IDD said 165 LBOs worth $80.4 billion, including the record $25 billion deal for RJR Nabisco Inc., were announced during the year, suggesting 1989 will be an active year as well. The value of successful tender offers for public companies increased to $107.2 billion, nearly 70 percent higher than the $63.5 billion in completed tender offers in 1987, IDD said. The success rate of hostile takeovers in 1988 also rose, with 30.3 percent of all unfriendly bids announced in 1988 completed. In 1987, 24.8 percent of hostile offers announced in the year were successful. IDD said 32 rejected takeover offers were eventually completed in 1988, valued at $53.3 billion, vs. 22 such offers with a value of $6.1 billion in 1987. Based in New York, IDD is a leading financial information and publication concern that primarily supplies figures to the investment banking business.
<irrelevant> The chairman and ranking Republican of the Senate Banking Committee want the Treasury Department and federal regulators to conduct a sweeping study of leveraged buyouts by Feb. 1. Among other things, Sens. Donald W. Riegle Jr., D-Mich., and Jake Garn, R-Utah, asked for an analysis of: _the potential strength, during an economic downturn, of major leveraged buyouts, or LBOs, completed in the last five years. _possible management conflicts of interest in the transactions. _whether existing bondholders were treated fairly. _and, whether pension funds and banks are in any danger from providing loans for the deals. In an LBO, an investment group borrows heavily in order to buy out stockholders and take over the company. Often LBOs are proposed by managers seeking to thwart a hostile takeover. The company's new owners either cut costs or sell of pieces of the company to pay back loans. Critics of the practice fear the high debt levels, in a recession, would endanger both the bought-out company and the banks and firms financing the buyout. The two senators, in a letter dated Jan. 6 but released Wednesday, asked for the information from the Treasury Department, Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve Board and other bank regulators. The senators also asked for any recommendations on whether and how to curb LBOs. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, under Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., last month revealed that it had launched an examination of the biggest-ever LBO, the $25 billion buyout of RJR Nabisco Inc.
<irrelevant> President-elect Bush said Thursday that he would not advocate government action to curtail corporate takeovers but suggested a review of tax laws might be needed to guard against abuses. ``I am not in favor of the government picking winners and losers,'' Bush said at a news conference called to announce his final Cabinet choices. Bush was asked if he planned any action to put the brakes on the increasing number of takeovers, many through so-called leveraged buyouts. ``You are talking to one who would as much as possible rely on market forces,'' Bush replied. In a leveraged buyout, an investment group borrows heavily to buy out stockholders and take over the target company. Sometimes such buyouts are proposed by managers seeking to thwart a hostile takeover. The company's new owners either cut costs or sell off pieces of the company to pay back loans. Critics of the practice fear that high debt levels, particularly in a recession, could endanger both the bought-out company and the financiers of the transaction. Bush said that ``if there are abuses of our tax laws, ... the whole tax law will be reviewed to see how they can be eliminated.'' The vice president did not elaborate, but hinted that his administration might examine changes in tax laws to make clearer the distinction between debt and equity.
</top>
<top>
<num> 54
<title> Satellite Launch Contracts
<relevant> The long-delayed launch debuts of two new military space rockets, the Delta 2 and Titan 4, should occur within two months as the Air Force prepares for what could be the busiest launch year here since 1983, an official said Tuesday. The commander of the Eastern Space and Missile Center, Air Force Col. Lawrence L. Gooch, said the Delta 2, carrying a pair of military navigation satellites, is set for liftoff Feb. 7, with the Titan 4, which will be America's most powerful unmanned rocket, to follow within a few weeks. Gooch told reporters the current schedule for 1989 calls for seven Delta 2s, two commercial Delta 2s and one Delta 1; two Titan 4s, two smaller Titan 34Ds and two commercial Titan 3s; two commercial Atlas-Centaurs and one with a Navy communications satellite, and six to eight submarine test launches of the Navy's powerful new Trident 2 nuclear missiles. In addition, the missile center will support seven NASA space shuttle launchings during 1989, starting with Discovery on Feb. 23. The schedule of 32 to 34 launches would be the busiest here since 1983, when there were 60. There were 26 in 1987. But launch slippages and a shortage of manpower could hold down the total, Gooch said. ``With luck we could support that rate, but if we can get 70 percent up, we will have earned our pay.'' The Air Force decided to build the Delta 2 and to greatly increase its Titan 4 order following the explosion of space shuttle Challenger in 1986. Both the Pentagon and NASA had been phasing out unmanned rockets and putting all launch eggs into one basket, the shuttle. After Challenger, officials realized this was a mistake and they ordered expendable rockets to give the nation assured access to space. Gooch estimated that 40 space payloads have backed up, waiting for a rocket ride, as a result of the 32-month shuttle standdown after the shuttle accident and because of the grounding of the Titan 34D for several months after back-to-back failures in 1885 and 1986. About 25 of those are satellites vital to national defense, he said. Gooch said the range may have problems supporting the schedule if there are delays in a lot of the missions. Citing the Trident 2 submarine launches, the first of which is scheduled in about two months, he said, ``If you have a Trident sub at sea, and it comes in here for demonstration firings, that's a lot of resources and involves a national defense commitment.'' In most cases, the Trident launch probably would have priority over all except the most critical defense satellite launches. The maiden launch of the Delta 2 already has been delayed six months and the debut of the Titan 4 about five months by problems preparing the new rockets and their refurbished launch pads. Another problem, Gooch said, could be a shortage of manpower to support launches. He said he has asked the Pentagon for about 100 skilled people to add to the 200 he now has in his test operations group.
<relevant> The debut of the Delta 2 space rocket next month and that of the powerful Titan 4 a few weeks later highlight the Air Force's busiest launch year here since 1983, an official says. The Pentagon is counting on both rockets to help orbit a backlog of about 25 national defense payloads that have been grounded since the 1986 explosions of the space shuttle Challenger and an unpiloted Titan 34D rocket. Problems that have held up the two launches for months are being resolved, Air Force Col. Lawrence L. Gooch, commander of the Eastern Space and Missile Center, told reporters Tuesday. The Delta 2 will carry two military navigation satellites on its first flight Feb. 7 and the Titan 4, which will be America's most powerful expendable rocket, will hoist a classified payload a few weeks later, Gooch said. The 1989 launch schedule calls for seven military Delta 2s, two commercial Delta 2s and one Delta 1; two Titan 4s, two smaller Titan 34Ds and two commercial Titan 3s; two commercial Atlas-Centaurs and one with a Navy communications satellite; and six to eight submarine test launches of the Navy's powerful new Trident 2 nuclear missile. The missile center also will support seven National Aeronautics and Space Administration space shuttle launchings during 1989, starting with Discovery on Feb. 23. The schedule of 32 to 34 launches would be the busiest here since 1983, when there were 60. There were 26 in 1987. Launch slippages and a shortage of manpower could hold the total down, Gooch said. ``With luck we could support that rate, but if we can get 70 percent up, we will have earned our pay.'' The Air Force decided to build the Delta 2 and to significantly increase its Titan 4 order after space shuttle Challenger exploded on Jan. 26, 1986. The Pentagon and NASA had been phasing out unpiloted rockets and had been putting all their launch eggs into one basket, the shuttle. The Challenger disaster convinced officials that strategy had been a mistake, and they ordered expendable rockets to ensure American access to space. Gooch estimated 40 military, commercial and NASA space payloads have backed up as a result of the 32-month standdown after the shuttle accident and because of the Titan 34D grounding for several months. About 25 of those are satellites vital to national defense, he said. Cape Canaveral range may have problems supporting the schedule if there are delays in a lot of the missions, Gooch said. A shortage of people to handle launches could be another problem, Gooch said. The colonel said he has asked the Pentagon for about 100 people to add to the 200 he now has in his test operations group.
<relevant> A Hong Kong company signed a $30 million contract today to fire an American-built satellite into space on a Chinese rocket _ the first time communist China will launch a foreign-built satellite. ``This marks China's first step in the international satellite business,'' said Terry Seddon, chief executive of Asia Satellite Telecommunications Co., which signed the deal with the state-owned China Great Wall Industrial Corp. It is for the launch of AsiaSat 1 in April 1990. China will be sending two other American-made satellites into space in July 1991 and February 1992 for an Australian satellite company, Aussat, Chinese officials said. In addition, negotiations are under way for the Chinese launching of a second satellite from AsiaSat and a weather satellite from Sweden. AsiaSat 1 and the two Aussat satellites were made by the U.S.-based Hughes Aircraft Co. The launchings in an unmanned rocket will provide China with much-needed foreign exchange and, if successful, help cement its position in the world of international aerospace. Since 1984, China has launched four of its own communications satellites successfully. It started launching satellites in 1970 and has had 23 successful firings and one failure. In December, the United States agreed to allow China to launch American-built communications satellites after Beijing promised it would neither steal American satellite technology nor undercut private American launch companies. China said it would limit itself to launching nine foreign communications satellites over the next six years. According to some estimates, China's state-subsidized rocket industry charges 30 to 50 percent less per launch than its American or European competitors. AsiaSat 1 will be sent into orbit 21,700 miles high on a Long March 3 rocket from China's launching site in Xichang, Sichuan province. Company officials said total expenditures on AsiaSat are $120 million and they expect to start making a profit in five years. China will use most of the satellite's 24 transponders for domestic communications. The launch will be AsiaSat 1's second trip in space. In 1984, under the name Westar VI, it was sent up on the American Space Shuttle but a rocket motor malfunctioned and the satellite was not delivered into orbit. It was retrieved in a spectacular salvage operaton in 1985 and sold to AsiaSat, the company owned by a consortium consisting of Cable and Wireless of Britain, the state-owned China International Trust and Investment Corp., and Hutchison Whampoa Ltd., one of Hong Kong's biggest companies.
<relevant> Europe's Ariane 2 rocket lifted off Thursday night and put the international communications satellite Intelsat V-F15 into orbit. The rocket left the European Space Agency launch pad on the Atlantic coast of South America 10:21 p.m. after a 53-minute delay caused by an indicator light mistakenly suggesting a malfunctioning valve on a hydrogen reservoir, Arianespace officials said. The faulty indicator automatically halted the countdown 18 seconds before the scheduled liftoff. But technicians were able to determine quickly that the valve was working properly, allowing the launch to proceed. About 35 minutes after the launch, Arianespace officials announced that the satellite was in orbit and declared the mission a success. In the coming days, the orbit will be adjusted to station the Intersat V-F15 over the Indian Ocean. The 4,400-pound satellite, with 36 transponders to carry television and telephone communications, is to join 13 others operated by Intelsat. The International Telecommunications Satellite Organization is a non-profit cooperative of 115 countries. The Intelsat network carries more than half of all international telephone calls and nearly all transoceanic television transmissions. The launch is the first of the year for Arianespace, a consortium of 50 European companies responsible for the commercial exploitation of the Ariane series of rockets developed by the European Space Agency. In seven launches last year, all successful, Arianespace put 13 satellites in orbit last year for various clients.
<relevant> Thirty years ago, a Titan 1 missile roared off a launch pad here on its maiden test flight, spawning an evolution that soon will see one of its offspring debut as America's most powerful unmanned space rocket. By today's standards, that first Titan 1 launch on Feb. 6, 1959, was not much. Only the first stage was fueled, with the second stage's tanks filled with water for weight, and it traveled only 300 miles down the Atlantic Tracking Range. But before many months, the Air Force rocket was hurling dummy warheads more than 5,000 miles at speeds up to 17,000 mph. It was the nation's first two-stage intercontinental ballistic missile and at the time the most powerful delivery system in its nuclear arsenal. ``We certainly were plowing new ground with a two-stage vehicle. The Titan 1 was the giant of our launch vehicle family,'' said Gary D. Flora, who as a young engineer began working on Titans for Martin Marietta in 1960. He now is president of the company's Space Launch Systems Co. in Denver. But the Titan 1 was soon obsolete. It was replaced by the larger, more powerful Titan 2, which with its storable fuel could sit for months in an underground silo, ready to be fired at almost a moment's notice. Fifty-four Titan 2s stood on alert for nearly 20 years in 165-foot silos in Arkansas, Kansas and Arizona before the last one was deactivated in 1982. The liquid-fueled missiles were replaced by the Minuteman and the submarine-launched Trident missiles, with advanced technology and easier-to-handle solid fuel. Modified Titan 2s were used in 1965 and 1966 to hoist 10 pairs of Gemini astronauts into orbit to rehearse techniques needed to send Apollo astronauts to the moon. Then, using the Titan 2 as a basic core, Martin Marietta and the Air Force built a series of Titan 3s by improving the rocket motors, enlarging the fuel tanks, and adding solid fuel booster rockets and upper stages. Most Titan 3s were used by the Air Force to launch satellites for such things as reconnaissance, communications, and navigation. NASA added its Centaur upper stage to a few of the vehicles to launch the Helios deep space probe and the Voyager and Viking payloads to explore the planets. The next generation, the Titan 4, is on a Canaveral launch pad, ready for its maiden flight within a few weeks with a classified military payload. The new rocket will be able to lift 39,000 pounds into low orbit or carry 10,000 pounds to stationary orbit, 23,000 miles out, where communications satellites reside. The Air Force has ordered 23 Titan 4s from Martin Marietta and negotiations are under way for 26 more. The company also is modifying 14 of the old Titan 2s removed from silos so they can serve as medium-size space boosters. The first of these was launched successfully with an Air Force payload last September. Flora said the Titan 4 is a very ``robust, blossoming program'' and he expects the rocket will be America's workhorse space rocket, primarily for military payloads, until near the end of the century. ``With Titan 4 we are pushing into a new generation in terms of lift capability,'' said W.E. Fields, director of Canaveral Operations for Martin Marietta's Space Launch Systems. Fields said the Titan 4, like the Titan 3, will grow and become even more powerful as improvements are introduced. And separate teams of contractors headed by Martin Marietta, Boeing and General Dynamics are studying designs for a new rocket for the early 21st century capable of lifting 100,000 to 200,000 pounds into orbit. ``Whether that becomes a derivative of Titan or not is problematical,'' said Fields, who began working on the Titan program in 1956.
<irrelevant> The launch of space shuttle Discovery and a five-man crew has been rescheduled for Feb. 23, five days later than planned. The schedule change does not reflect any technical problem, only that extra time is needed to prepare Discovery for flight, Lisa Malone, a NASA spokeswoman, said Wednesday. However, she said that before a launching can occur engineers must resolve tile and cracked bearing problems that developed during the December flight of the shuttle Atlantis. Officials have said they are confident the problems will be resolved in time to meet the February launch date. Atlantis suffered severe damage to nearly 200 of the 28,000 thermal tiles that protect it from atmospheric re-entry heat. And when engineers inspected the craft's main engines, they found a tiny crack in a bearing in a liquid hydrogen pump. Officials believe the tile damage was caused when insulation peeled away from the shuttle's external fuel tank and solid fuel booster rockets during liftoff. They think the bearing damage may be traced to a flaw in the metal curing process. The space agency said the current plan is to move Discovery into an assembly building on Jan. 19 to be hooked to its fuel tank and booster rockets, with rollout to the launch pad set for Jan. 26. Agency managers will meet here Feb. 8 and 9 to assess the readiness of the shuttle for flight. Liftoff on Feb. 23 is set for 8:30 a.m. EST. Navy Capt. Michael L. Coats will command Discovery on the five-day mission, during which the astronauts will deploy a communications satellite and conduct scientific and technology experiments. The other crew members are Air Force Col. John E. Blaha, Marine Cols. Robert C. Springer and James F. Buchli and James P. Bagian, a doctor.
<irrelevant> American Airlines is expected to announce two aircraft orders for 160 McDonnell Douglas airplanes worth a total $7.4 billion, according to a published report. The Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported in Tuesday's editions that the deal would have to be approved by the board of directors of AMR Corp., American's parent. The board's monthly meeting is scheduled for today. But American spokesman Al Becker described the report as ``highly speculative.'' The newspaper said the airline, owner of the largest commercial jet fleet in the non-communist world, will order 60 long-range McDonnell Douglas MD-11s for an estimated $5.4 billion and 100 domestic-range MD-80s for an estimated $2 billion more. American decided to buy the MD-11, which has yet to make its first flight, instead of the Boeing 747-400, the newest, largest and longest-range of Boeing Commercial Airplane Co.'s line of jumbo jets, the newspaper quoted Wall Street and industry sources as saying. The Star-Telegram said the deals will be announced within the next three weeks, as soon as final language of the contract is worked out. Becker, asked to comment on the report, said: ``We have not signed any agreements nor have we made any deals with either of the aircraft manufacturers and we have no announcements imminent.'' ``The article is highly speculative,'' Becker said when reached by The Associated Press at American's headquarters in Fort Worth. But Becker noted that American has been evaluating both the MD-11 and the Boeing 747-400 as part of its preparation for expansion in the Pacific and European air markets. The airline has 465 jets in its fleet. Aeroflot, the Soviet Union's state-owned carrier, has the world's largest fleet. American also has an additional 213 planes either on order or option. McDonnell Douglas Corp. head offices in St. Louis, Mo., referred the AP's calls about the possible MD-11 and MD-80 purchases to Don Hanson, the company's spokesman in Los Angeles. A secretary in Hanson's office said he was not immediately available Tuesday. To McDonnell Douglas, the nation's No. 2 commercial jetliner maker, American's acquisition would represent an isolated win in its competition against the larger, wealthier Boeing. It would virtually assure more sales, said Paul Turk, a spokesman for Avmark Inc., a Washington, D.C., firm that consults with airlines on aircraft acquisitions. McDonnell Douglas, as 1988 ended, had orders, options and other commitments for as many as 250 MD-11s. But until Delta Air Lines announced in September its order for 40, McDonnell Douglas had down payments in hand for only 40. Turk said one reward for being a so-called launch customer for a new type of aircraft is a discount as high as 30 percent off the plane's list price. ``The MD-11 has been sold for $100 million to $110 million in ones and twos,'' Turk said. ``We're estimating that Delta is paying right at about $90 million per plane for its batch. And American, with its reputation for getting the best price anyone can get, probably will be paying about $90 million per copy, too,'' he told the Star-Telegram.
<irrelevant> Morton Thiokol successfully tested its redesigned space shuttle booster Friday, firing the rocket in colder weather than that which contributed to the Challenger disaster. ``The nation has a new president today and a new success in its space flight program,'' said Royce Mitchell, NASA's solid-fuel rocket motor project manager at the Marshall Space Flight Center, in Huntsville, Ala. The $20 million test, the last of six qualifying tests, was designed to show the strength of the rocket's casing and the behavior of its solid-fuel propellant, which hasn't as much ``oomph'' in cold weather, Mitchell said. Early test data showed the propellant's burn rate was normal for the conditions and there was no evidence of the uneven burning that could have occurred at that temperature, he said. The horizontal 126-foot-long booster, its 1.1 million pounds of propellant chilled to a coldest-ever 40 degrees, was fired for 125 seconds at the company's Wasatch Operations center 25 miles west of here. The bright orange plume from the rocket's tail melted the snow from a nearby hillside during the test, which was delayed for 90 minutes by a lack of wind to blow away dust from the blast. About 300 company and space officials cheered as the rocket ignited. If post-test analysis turns up no serious problems, the experiment will qualify the rocket for cold-weather launches, although further testing on a smaller scale is planned, said Allan McDonald, vice president of engineering for space operations. Identical boosters already have been used on two shuttle flights in the four months since America's return to manned space flight. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration ordered Morton Thiokol to redesign the booster after a Jan. 28, 1986, explosion destroyed the shuttle Challenger and killed its seven astronauts. NASA required only five qualifying tests before the shuttle program resumed with the launch of Discovery on Sept. 29. The shuttle Atlantis was sent into space Dec. 2, and in both cases the boosters performed with no problems. A presidential commission blamed the Challenger disaster on a booster joint that allowed a plume of superhot gas to burn through an O-ring, triggering the explosion of the craft's liquid fuel tank. Investigators also found that freezing temperatures the night before the launch stiffened the joint's rubber-like O-ring seal, causing it to lose pliability and contributing to the failure.
<irrelevant> A satellite that provides those clever moving cloud pictures for television weather forecasts failed Saturday, depriving customers of views of the Western United States, officials said. The failure occurred aboard GOES-6, a National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration satellite that was launched in April 1983, said Milton Mortman, a shift supervisor at the agency's satellite operations control center. ``It's just old age,'' Mortman said. National Weather Service meteorologist Al Brown said weather map-making would be little affected. ``For making maps it wouldn't have that much effect,'' Brown said, noting that forecasters rely mostly on conventional ground data. ``We do things such as help them locate frontal positions ... coming in over the ocean areas. It's sort of extra input,'' he said of the GOES-6 data. Brown said partial pictures can be provided from a companion satellite, GOES-7, that covers the Eastern United States. ``We'll be getting pictures from the eastern satellite. Eventually we will move the eastern satellite over so it can cover the entire country,'' Brown said. Mortman said the process of moving GOES-7, using small rockets mounted to the satellite, would be completed around Feb. 21. Controllers will move the GOES-7 satellite from its present position at 80 degrees west longitude over northern South America to 108 degrees west longitude. GOES-6 is located at 134.5 west longitude, far out over the Pacific Ocean. The two satellites are in stationary orbits 22,300 miles above the equator. Until the satellite is moved, weather-watching also will be augmented by other existing satellites operated by NOAA and by satellites from the European and Japanese space agencies, said Thomas N. Pyke Jr., NOAA's assistant administrator for satellite and information services. NOAA said GOES-7 will perform double duty for an estimated 18 months until mid-1990, when the next GOES satellite is expected to be ready for launch. Mortman said the satellites take cloud-cover pictures in narrow strips and then compile the pieces to give large-scale, moving views of cloud patterns. An encoder lamp that is critical to the compilation process failed, he said. ``Without the lamp you have no instrument,'' Mortman said.
<irrelevant> Workers moved the space shuttle Discovery into an assembly building Monday and began joining it to its fuel tank and solid fuel booster rockets in preparation for a late February launch. The 400-foot move from a processing building was delayed 24 hours because of rain and high wind on Sunday. NASA said it was not known if the delay would affect the current launch target of Feb. 23. Discovery is scheduled to be moved to the launch pad next Sunday or Monday. A flight readiness review scheduled for Feb. 8-9 will set a firm launch date. The third shuttle flight following Challenger's explosion will carry five astronauts who are to deploy a communications satelllite and conduct several science and medical experiments.
</top>
<top>
<num> 55
<title> Insider Trading
<relevant> A federal probe arising out of shady dealings that surfaced during the market crash of October 1987 has taken the government's crackdown on securities fraud in a new direction, officials say. The crackdown that began in 1986 already has resulted in several well-publicized cases of insider trading and other securities abuse. But the stock market crash unveiled a new breed of manipulators, according to authorities who on Thursday described the case of Stanley Aslanian Jr., 29, former president of a now-defunct securities firm, the Haas Securities Corp. Stocks pushed by the company surged during the Oct. 19, 1987 crash, but then the company faltered and the investigation began once ``Haas went out of business nine days'' after the crash as customers complained, Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Lieb said. Now, officials say he has promised federal investigators he will assist their probe of his firm's actions. ``The heady days of pre-Oct. 19 gave birth to this case,'' his lawyer, Kalman Gallop said. ``It is probably one of 1,000 tragedies from that day.'' The stock manipulation undertaken by the 75-year-old company with 12,000 customers and four offices nationwide is indicative of similar problems in the industry, authorities said. ``We have seen a proliferation of these kinds of activities since the crash,'' James C. Esposito, an assistant deputy director of the FBI, said at a news conference at U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani's Manhattan office. Most of the notable securities cases have stemmed from the insider trading scandal that started with the guilty plea of Dennis B. Levine in 1986. The new investigation by the FBI, Securities and Exchange Commission and the U.S. attorney's office begins with Aslanian, who was expected to plead guilty in U.S. District Court in Manhattan to one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud by manipulating stock, Giuliani said. The defendant faces up to five years in prison and $250,000 in fines. Giuliani said he hoped Aslanian's deal would ``encourage others to do what Mr. Aslanian did. It's a very significant and helpful thing to do.'' Haas Securities went out of business Oct. 28, 1987, after Aslanian was involved in manipulating millions of dollars worth of stocks, officials said. Gallop said Haas Securities is now in Chapter 7 liquidation proceedings in Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan. Gallop said ``millions and millions of dollars'' were involved but profits could not be easily determined. Aslanian declined to comment. Lieb said the case involved the manipulation of four stocks: TS Industries from the Salt Lake City area; Big O Tires; Flores de New Mexico and Cliff Engle Ltd. The information alleges that the scheme lasted from June 1985 until November 1987.
<relevant> U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani, who made a name for himself prosecuting the biggest insider traders and mobsters, says he has not decided whether he'll enter the political arena when he leaves his job this month. The high-profile prosecutor who also targeted corrupt politicians said one of the proudest achievements of his 5{-year tenure had been an improvement in the ``ethical climate in business and politics. ``When I spoke of crime five or six years ago, most people thought of street crime and violent crime,'' he said. ``We have now broadened those areas to business and politics.'' Giuliani announced his resignation as U.S. Attorney for Manhattan at a packed news conference Tuesday. He said he will leave the post by the end of January. By overseeing the conviction of the heads of five New York crime families, the insider trading plea of financier Ivan Boesky and proposed securities fraud plea of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., and the Wedtech conviction of former Rep. Mario Biaggi, Giuliani became the town's most talked-about prosecutor since Thomas Dewey rose to prominence by busting racketeers in the 1930s. It has been widely speculated that Giuliani, a Republican, intends to run for mayor of New York later this year, and he said he had not ``shut the door'' on such a bid. ``We'll figure that out in the next few weeks,'' he said, adding that he also could return to private practice with his top assistant, Dennison Young Jr., who also resigned. Edward Lurie, executive director of the state Republican Committee, said Giuliani and state GOP Chairman Anthony Colavita would be meeting soon to ``discuss Giuliani's interests.'' Democratic Mayor Edward I. Koch, who is expected to run for a fourth term, praised Giuliani as a ``superb prosecutor,'' wished him well in his future endeavors ``in the private sector,'' and acknowledged that Giuliani would be a ``formidable candidate'' should he decide to run for mayor. U.S. Attorney General Dick Thornburgh also praised Giuliani. ``He can be extremely proud of the record of his 5{ years as the chief federal prosecutor in the Southern District of New York, particularly in the areas of organized crime and official corruption,'' Thornburgh said. Thornburgh also announced the appointment of Benito Romano, who has been an assistant U.S. attorney in New York, as Guiliani's interim replacement. Giuliani said his resignation should not come as a surprise because he had said last February that he did not plan staying in the job under the next presidential administration. Giuliani, who served as associate attorney general in the Justice Department before becoming U.S. attorney here in 1983, used the federal racketeering statutes to convict the heads of New York's five crime families. His office also broke open a huge heroin distribution operation in the ``Pizza Connection'' case. He also pressed insider trading cases. His first target, Dennis Levine, former managing director at the investment banking firm of Drexel Burnham Lambert, pleaded guilty to securities fraud and other charges. That led to a guilty plea by Boesky and last month's agreement by Drexel to plead guilty to six felony counts and pay a record $650 million in fines and restitution. In addition, Giuliani's office conducted extensive investigations of corruption among New York City officials. He personally prosecuted Stanley Friedman, the Bronx Democratic leader who was convicted of corruption charges. Prosecution of the Wedtech scandal involving payoffs by the defense contractor to public officials to obtain federal contracts resulted in the conviction of Biaggi, D-N.Y., among others. Giuliani's office also indicted former Philippines President Ferdinand Marcos and his wife, Imelda, on racketeering charges for allegedly plundering their homeland of hundreds of millions of dollars. Most recently, the U.S. attorney's office lost a highly publicized case _ the trial of former Miss America Bess Myerson, her lover Carl Capasso and former Judge Hortense Gabel on charges they conspired to reduce the alimony Capasso owed to his former wife. Romano, 39, for the past 18 months has been a partner in the law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer &amp; Wood, where he has been involved in civil litigation and white-collar criminal defense work. Appointed to the U.S. attorney's office in 1980, he rose to associate U.S. attorney, the office's third-ranking post, before leaving in 1987. Romano said he was not seeking to keep the U.S. attorney position permanently.
<relevant> Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., trying to cleanse its dirtied image from the Wall Street insider trading scandal, has offered top jobs to two ex-chairmen of the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the one who first authorized a probe that led to the financial giant's current problems. John S. R. Shad, who headed the SEC from 1981 to 1987 and now is envoy to the Netherlands, confirmed Thursday through a spokesman at the U.S. embassy there that he had been approached by Drexel about becoming chairman, but he did not say whether he would accept. The nation's fifth-largest securities firm also asked another ex-SEC chairman, Roderick M. Hills, husband of U.S. trade representative-designate Carla Hills, about the possibility of serving on its board of directors. Hills, who ran the SEC from 1975-77 and is now an independent trade consultant in Washington, also confirmed Drexel had approached him but declined to comment further. It was under Shad's auspices that the SEC began a major investigation of Drexel in late 1986, which resulted in a massive civil enforcement action in September and a record securities-fraud plea deal between the firm and the Justice Department, reached last month but still not finalized. Shad ordered the Drexel probe after the firm was implicated in extensive wrongdoing by Ivan F. Boesky, the speculator and inside trader now serving a three-year prison term. ``The firm's objective is to develop a fresh outlook on the problems and opportunities it faces, and to continue to make an important contribution to the nation's capital markets,'' Drexel said in a brief statement Thursday disclosing the job offers to Shad and Hills. ``The firm continues to enjoy the loyalty and support of the vast majority of its employees, and investment banking, institutional and retail clients. After the settlement, the firm's $2 billion of capital will remain among the largest in the securities industry and will be more than adequate to finance its future growth,'' the statement said. The invitations extended by Drexel were disclosed as the firm continued to negotiate with the government over final details of its securities fraud plea bargain settlement. Under that accord, Drexel must pay a record $650 million in fines and restitution, plead guilty to six unspecified felonies, settle related civil litigation with the SEC and agree to cooperate in the government's expanding campaign against Wall Street corruption. Shad is credited with toughening the agency's enforcement efforts to reduce insider trading and other abuses on Wall Street, and is a leading proponent of strengthening business ethics in general. Independently wealthy, with an extensive background on Wall Street, Shad resigned the SEC post in 1987 after a six-year tenure to accept the ambassador position. If Shad were to accept a Drexel job, he would replace Robert Linton, who has long been expected to retire. It would mark an ironic twist not only in the legal ordeal of the investment firm but also for Drexel's chief executive officer, Frederick Joseph, who was once hired by Shad 20 years ago when Shad ran the now-defunct investment firm E.F. Hutton &amp; Co. Word that Shad and Hills had been approached came a day after Drexel said it and former Sen. Howard Baker had agreed to end talks about a possible role for him in the firm's senior management. Baker, a prominent Republican lawyer, former Tennessee senator and one-time White House chief of staff under President Reagan, had been negotiating with Drexel since November about assuming a senior position. There was no explanation for why talks ended. But people familiar with the talks said there was disagreement over how much management control would be exercised by Baker, who has no background in Wall Street investment banking.
<relevant> The prosecutor quit for a possible mayoral bid, his aides botched the first key case to reach trial, and the biggest corporate target of their fraud probe offered a top job to a former government adversary. No, it wasn't the latest episode of ``L.A. Law.'' But the twists in the Wall Street insider trading scandal this past week could well provide some real-life fodder for Hollywood writers of the glitzy television series. It began last Tuesday when politically ambitious Manhattan U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani, architect of a massive securities-fraud crackdown over the past few years, announced he was resigning at the end of the month. Although Giuliani's departure was expected _ because of numerous dropped hints he might run for New York mayor _ it came at a particularly crucial time in the Wall Street investigation for which he is largely responsible. Giuliani will be leaving more than a half-dozen important cases unresolved, along with increasing acrimony over what defense lawyers call his brutal and sometimes careless tactics. Coincidentally, those tactics backfired on his assistants just as Giuliani was calling the press together at his downtown Manhattan office to say farewell. Next door in federal court, a judge decreed a mistrial in the stock-manipulation case against GAF Corp. and a senior company official, the first key prosecution to reach the trial phase in the scandal. U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe said prosecutors broke the rules by failing to inform the defense that a key piece of evidence they introduced may have been altered. A federal appeals court sided with her in ordering a new trial, but warned the Giuliani aide handling the case: ``Don't withhold any more evidence.'' The departure of Giuliani also signaled his evident failure to extract a plea bargain agreement from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.'s high-yield bond financier, Michael Milken, who has continued to assert his innocence although his employer capitulated last month. Drexel, the biggest corporate target of Giuliani's crusade, agreed Dec. 21 to plead guilty to six unspecified felonies, pay a record $650 million in fines and restitution, settle related litigation with the Securities and Exchange Commission and cooperate in the government's expanding fraud probes. As part of a move to cleanse its sullied image, the firm announced last Thursday it had offered the chairman's job to John Shad, the former SEC chief who authorized the investigation that ensnared Drexel in the first place. It wasn't clear by the end of the week whether the offer would be accepted by Shad, who is now U.S. ambassador to the Netherlands. But he was quoted in the Wall Street Journal as saying any decision was subject to ``favorable resolution'' of Drexel's legal problems. In other business and economic news this past week: _Government statistics suggested sharp rises in consumer spending, debt and inflation. The Federal Reserve said consumer borrowing swelled at an 8.2 percent annual rate in November, driven by credit-card purchases; the Commerce Department said retail spending shot up 6.7 percent last year, the fastest growth in four years; and the Labor Department said wholesale prices rose 4 percent last year, the highest rate since the early 1980s. _Although the stock market appeared to be holding its own, the post-crash uncertainty of the securities world was dramatically demonstrated by sharply different earnings situations at two of Wall Street's biggest firms. Bear Stearns Cos. reported the highest quarterly profits in history, while Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. said it would suffer a quarterly loss, partly because of the tumbling value of its holdings in a troubled Texas bank, MCorp. _President-elect Bush suggested he might propose tax changes that would make debt-financed takeovers less attractive, but there was no evident slowdown in the merger news that colored 1988. Cooke Cablevision Inc. and the New York Times Co. agreed to sell their cable TV operations in transactions totaling almost $2 billion; and West Point-Pepperell Inc. reported sharply lower profits partly because of efforts to fight a $1.4 billion hostile takeover bid. _Meanwhile on the cooked and and raw poultry fronts, a judge ruled Popeye's Famous Fried Chicken may resume a $290 million takeover attempt of rival Church's Fried Chicken; and Holly Farms Corp. set Wednesday as the deadline for suitors Tyson Foods Inc. and ConAgra Inc. to submit new offers in a $1 billion bidding struggle.
<relevant> The federal government will expand its role in investigating alleged insider trading and other fraud in the nation's securities and commodities markets, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh said Sunday. Thornburgh said the ``beefed-up'' federal role would include new task forces established specifically to focus on ``fraud and insider dealing in both the securities and commodities markets.'' Thornburgh, interviewed on the NBC-TV program ``Meet the Press,'' declined to be specific about a current investigation of the world's two largest futures exchanges, the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. But he indicated authorities were preparing to submit evidence to a grand jury. ``Obviously, I can't discuss in detail what's a pending investigation,'' Thornburgh said. ``I don't want to, obviously, make any predictions. But the investigation is far-reaching, it is significant. ... We will be gathering and submitting evidence to see if violations of the federal criminal laws have occurred.'' Asked when such a review might take place, Thornburgh said: ``You can never put a timetable on that, I'm afraid.'' The FBI reportedly has been investigating alleged fraud by traders at the Chicago exchanges for the past two years. The investigation centers on allegations investors were cheated out of millions of dollars and reportedly has included the use of wiretaps to record conversations with traders suspected of fraud. While avoiding specifics about the Chicago case, Thornburgh promised an expanded federal role in such investigations. ``We'll be announcing soon a much beefed-up operation in this regard because it's basically a pro-consumer initiative,'' Thornburgh said. ``People who trade on these markets are entitled to their integrity.'' He was not specific about the composition or duties of the planned task forces or about when the announcement of their establishment would be made. Word of the Chicago investigation surfaced the same week that the federal prosecutor widely associated with insider-trading investigations on Wall Street, U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani, announced he was resigning. President Bush will appoint a successor. New York Republican Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato has recommended criminal defense attorney Otto Obermaier, despite objections from Giuliani. Presidents traditionally accept the recommendation of the senior state senator from their party. Giuliani's objections stem from Obermaier's representation of several firms that are or have been targets of insider-trading investigations. ``Those are choices that are made by the president and they would be made only after careful scrutiny of the individual's qualifications to serve and carry out the president's agenda,'' Thornburgh said when asked whether Bush would accept D'Amato's recommendation.
<irrelevant> West Virginia's securities division said Friday it will use subpoena powers if necessary to force Wall Street brokers to reveal how much in commissions they made from a state fund that lost an estimated $212 million in 1987. In addition, the state is asking the Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate possible wrongdoing in the case, state securities chief Jack Hall said. ``We mean to look closely at the relationship between the brokers and the people who conducted the transactions. There were a tremendous number of trades conducted and a large amount of commissions generated,'' Hall said. ``I'm going to attempt to find out how much in the way of commissions were generated.'' Hall said he has forwarded to the SEC substantial amounts of material concerning the losses in the consolidated investment fund in April, May and June 1987. By Dec. 31, 1987, the fund had $1.78 billion, but it had undergone sales during the year of $80.5 billion. Treasurer A. James Manchin said his office did not keep a record of the commissions made by the 42 brokerage firms handling transactions during that period. State Republican Party Chairman Edgar ``Hike'' Heiskell suggested on Dec. 20 that the U.S. attorney's office investigate whether the fund was being ``churned,'' a brokerage term used to describe massive purchases and sales that produce no profit for the portfolio, but handsome commissions for brokers. Churning is illegal. U.S. Attorney Michael Carey has confirmed his office is involved in the investigation. Hall said his office began calling brokerage houses Friday to tell them he wants the information. Hall said he will follow his initial telephone call with a letter, asking each broker to send the commission information within five to 10 days. ```We're going to demand they be forthcoming on all transactions,'' Hall said. Hall said the SEC is reviewing material he sent to the office to determine ``whether federal securities laws have been violated.'' The independent auditing firm Touche Ross &amp; Co., which initially uncovered the losses in November, is expected to make its final report public in mid-January. The Legislature's Commission on Special Investigations also is investigating the losses.
<irrelevant> The Securities and Exchange Commission is looking at the possibility of making managers of companies involved in leveraged buyouts or takeover attempts disclose more information about their own fate in the transactions, SEC Chairman David Ruder said today. Ruder told the Senate Finance Committee that managers involved in some recent takeovers have avoided SEC regulations requiring them to disclose their own interest in the surviving company in third-party takeovers because they are not a direct participant. ``They may have an implied promise by the takeover or financial people that technically falls outside the transaction,'' Ruder said. ``Technically our rules now don't require them to disclose that.'' He said those assurances to managers usually take the form of ``We will not promise you equity participation (in the new company) but in our 45 previous transactions we always have.'' Ruder said the commission is now looking at revising its regulations on management disclosures to require them in all negotiated transactions. But he said that no new legislation is needed to do it. ``We have sufficiently broad rulemaking powers,'' he said. Ruder was the second witness in two days of hearings by the Finance Committee into the mushrooming of junk-bond-financed leveraged buyout attempts, some of them launched by managers of exisiting companies, in the past year. After RJR Nabisco's managers tried to buy up all the publicly owned stock last November in a leveraged buyout only to be outbid with a 30 percent higher $25 billion offer from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., there have been concerns about whether managements in such takeovers are acting in the best interests of stock and bond holders. Ruder said that as long as there is an auction process, shareholders ususally end up maximizing their gain. But he expressed concern they may not be getting the maximum value in deals where a company's publicly held stock is purchased in buybacks without an effective bidding process. Testifying Tuesday before the same committee, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady estimated the cost of leveraged buyouts, or LBOs, and takeover defenses at $60 billion in 1988 alone. While many restructured companies find themselves in trouble because they cannot make the interest payments on their new debt, the investment banks, arbitrageurs, underwriters and LBO managers involved in the deals collect hundreds of millions of dollars in up-front fees, he complained. ``Sadly, these same parties may have relatively little, if any, investment in the long-term success of the new enterprise,'' he said. ``Given this arrangement, it may very well be that the net effect of LBOs is a financial snipe hunt, where the new long-term investors, flashlight in hand, are left holding the bag.'' Brady's testimony on the wave of leveraged buyouts was the strongest indication yet that the new administration wants the trend reversed. The Treasury secretary said he would prefer that ``the gladiators in the arena'' _ the investment bankers, corporate and insurance executives and pension fund managers who trade in high-interest, high-risk junk bonds _ address the problem on their own. But he coupled that with a warning. ``It is the finest tradition of our democratic system that government look first to the people themselves for solutions and only act _ but do act _ when it is clear the people cannot solve the problem themselves,'' he said. However, how far the government should go in restraining buyouts is wide open to debate. The most widely discussed option is not allowing companies to deduct as an expense the high rates of interest they pay on junk bonds _ a move that both Brady and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan attempted to discourage Tuesday while acknowledging it may happen anyway. Greenspan told the House Banking Committee on Tuesday that attempting to tax the interest on junk bonds would probably be ineffective because corporate lawyers would find some other way of tax-free debt financing. Brady agreed. ``The long history of attempts to define problems out of existence has proved that the definees are more adept then the definers,'' he said. ``Just as soon as the new regulations are written, efforts are under way to render them irrelevant.'' Like Greenspan, Brady said he would prefer that Congress reduce the tax on dividends to encourage more equity financing of corporations. But both men acknowledged that is unlikely because of the budget deficit. When the Reagan administration in 1985 proposed giving companies a tax credit for the dividends they pay, the annual cost to the Treasury in lost tax dollars was put at $7 billion.
<irrelevant> Pinstriped lawyers and bankers worked frantically on two big deals within blocks of each other in lower Manhattan, feeling the deadline heat of an imminent triumph or defeat. By the end of the week, the proposed sale of Eastern Airlines had collapsed in failure, while a long-delayed settlement of civil charges was reached between the government and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. On the surface, the two events had nothing to do with each other and shared more contrasts than similarities. Eastern is a moneylosing business that has come to symbolize airline deregulation at its worst and labor-management feuding at its most intractable. Drexel is a rough-and-tumble, moneymaking Wall Street powerhouse that incited the use of junk bonds to finance mergers, crossed the bounds of illegality and agreed to pay for it. But underneath the differences lie some common threads: Both the Eastern and Drexel stories are the outgrowth, directly and indirectly, of the 1980s debt-financed takeover decade. Eastern boss Frank Lorenzo is a longtime Drexel client who used its renowned prowess in high-yield, high-risk junk-bond market to help him finance his Texas Air Corp. airline empire. Peter V. Ueberroth, the former baseball boss and Olympics organizer who offered to buy Eastern for $464 million, had planned to use Drexel's junk-bond financing to complete the deal. Ueberroth even had kind words for Michael Milken, the billionaire Drexel banker who helped create the junk-bond market and is now fighting criminal charges of securities fraud and racketeering that stem from a nearly 3-year-old federal crusade against Wall Street corruption. The charges facing Milken are the same that Drexel successfully dodged this past week via an unprecedented agreement negotiated with the Securities and Exchange Commission that will effectively make the firm a government-run business for three years. Under terms of that pact, which will enable Drexel to plead guilty to six felonies and pay a $650 million criminal fine in a separate deal with the Justice Department, the firm will banish Milken and appoint as chairman a former SEC chief who presided over the initial investigation into the firm in late 1986. Moreover, Drexel will cooperate with federal probes into other Wall Street crimes, broadly restructure its business and let the SEC supervise every aspect of its trading and financial structure. The Eastern and Drexel stories share another common element that has yet to be played out: their shrinking size and influence. Whether Eastern is sold or kept by Lorenzo, it is bound to be much smaller and has been hardly missed in the competitive airline brawl. Already rival American Airlines has moved aggressively into markets vacated by Eastern and has expressed interest in buying some of its assets. Drexel, though it remains a leader in the junk-bond market, has conceded losing hundreds of millions of dollars in business because of the federal fraud probe and now faces the prospect of competing as an admitted felon, without the enormous clout wielded by Milken. _Exxon Corp. faced more criticism and a toughened government attitude over its handling of the nation's largest oil spill from a grounded company tanker in the Prince William Sound of Alaska. Federal officials took over the supervision of the disaster and ordered the oil giant to produce a detailed cleanup plan. _Government statistics on the economy injected more confusion into the financial markets and the direction of interest rates _ the cost of money. The trade deficit widened in February from a flood of imports, implying more inflation and higher interest rates. Wholesale prices in March rose moderately, suggesting inflation is easing. Business inventories rose in February and sales fell, suggesting production cutbacks and an economic decline. _Real and attempted takeovers swept the banking, drug, computer and chicken businesses. Banking company NCNB Corp. pressed its effort to buy Citizens &amp; Southern Corp.; pharmaceutical giants SmithKline Beckman Corp. and Beecham Group PLC of Britain agreed to merge, creating what would be the biggest drug company behind Merck & Co.; Hewlett-Packard Inc. agreed to buy Apollo Computer Inc.; and Holly Farms Corp. shareholders voted on a proposed merger with ConAgra Inc. End Adv Weekend Editions April 15-16
<irrelevant> Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. said it plans to sell its retail brokerage unit in a massive corporate restructuring spurred by publicity over securities fraud charges against the Wall Street investment firm. Drexel, which last week settled a raft of civil charges with the Securities and Exchange Commission, said Tuesday it was abandoning business in municipal securities, over-the-counter stocks, and research and market-making in non-U.S. securities. New residential construction suffered its second straight decline when it fell 5.4 percent in March, the government said. Analysts said Tuesday the report was evidence the housing industry will bear the brunt of a campaign to restrain economic growth. The Commerce Department report said construction of new homes and apartments dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.4 million units in March after plunging 12 percent in February. Higher food and energy costs boosted consumer prices 0.5 percent in March and resulted in a 6.1 percent annual inflation rate for the first three months of 1989, the government said. The Labor Department's report Tuesday on the Consumer Price Index rise was fresh evidence that inflation continues to run above the 4.4 percent rate registered in both 1987 and 1988. Ireland's GPA Group Ltd. joined the aircraft buying spree by announcing a record-breaking order for 308 new planes valued at $17 billion. At news conferences in New York, London and Paris, GPA officials said Tuesday the leasing company had placed firm orders for 121 new planes and had taken options on another 187, most of which are likely to be exercised. The purchase of jets made by Boeing Co., McDonnell Douglas Corp. and Europe's Airbus Industrie is the largest civilian aircraft order ever, topping Delta Air Lines' $10.5 billion order for up to 225 Boeing and McDonnell Douglas aircraft last September. Ramada Inc. will pare down to a gambling operation and lose its name after completing an agreement to sell its 825 hotels and motels to New World Development Co. of Hong Kong for $540 million, Ramada announced. Under the deal announced Tuesday, Prime Motor Inns of Fairfield, N.J., will pay an undisclosed sum to New World to operate as franchisor of roughly 600 hotels and motels in the U.S. that are under the Ramada and Rodeway names. Senators who privately negotiated a savings and loan rescue package with the administration defeated efforts to weaken President Bush's control over the bailout. By 66-32, the Senate defeated on Tuesday an amendment by Sen. Bob Kerrey, D-Neb., which would have substituted an independent board for one dominated by Cabinet members to sell some $400 billion in real estate the government is inheriting as a result of the S&amp;L crisis. The Supreme Court gave consumers a chance to recover, through antitrust lawsuits, the extra money they spend because of illegally inflated prices. By a 7-0 vote, the justices said Tuesday state laws may allow those indirectly affected by illegal price-fixing to sue for monetary damages. Lower courts had struck down such state laws, ruling that they are precluded by the federal antitrust law's bar on suits by ``indirect purchasers.'' Whittle Communications LP said it has signed David Halberstam, John Kenneth Galbraith and seven other well-known authors to write a series of compact hardcover books that will contain advertising. The project announced Tuesday would be the first book publishing venture by the fast-growing media concern that has specialized in creating magazines, posters and television programs that sponsors use to reach tightly-defined audiences such as new mothers, pet owners or teens at school. The disposable camera craze will be coming to a beach and scenic lookout near you very soon thanks to Eastman Kodak Co. The company introduced two throw-away 35mm cameras Tuesday, one that can be used underwater and another that has a special wide-angle lens to better capture panoramic views and group shots. The cameras cost under $15 each. The price of NWA Inc. stock climbed as the parent of Northwest Airlines said it would pursue the best deal for its shareholders in the face of Marvin Davis' $90-a-share takeover bid. Analsysts speculated the announcement would flush out any competing bids and probably a higher bid from Davis. NWA stock closed Tuesday at an all-time high of $97.38, up $7.13 from Monday's close in active trading. The stock market surged to a new post-crash high Tuesday, as the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials shot up 41.61 points to 2,379.40. Bond prices climbed as much as $11 for every $1,000 in face value. The dollar fell in foreign exchange trading. Palladium futures prices plummeted for the second straight session; other precious metals prices declined; gasoline futures surged while other petroleum futures were mixed; grain and soybean futures retreated; and livestock and meat were mixed.
<irrelevant> In the universe of financial affairs, the Cincinnati Stock Exchange is a dwarf star in an oddball galaxy, the only stock exchange in the world where all trades are executed by a computer. But on some day in the next 19 months, a switch will be thrown and market-watchers will train their telescopes on Cincinnati to observe what many foresee as the dawn of a new age: the era of 24-hour stock trading. There will be no daily opening or close, at least not as we know them today, and there will be no floor crowded with noisy, jostling traders. There will be only the computer, humming, clicking and beeping as it matches buy and sell orders streaming in from points all over the globe. Such is the hope of the Cincinnati exchange and its partners in the venture, the Chicago Board Options Exchange and London-based Reuters Holdings PLC, which jointly announced their plans in March. But the 24-hour stock market is not a universal vision. It has not been a goal publicly pursued by the New York Stock Exchange, for example, although the nation's biggest stock market suggested this past week it was considering a way to trade stocks electronically when the floor is closed. ``To the extent that a customer has a need in the off-hours, this institution has a commitmenmt to meet that need,'' Richard Grasso, NYSE president and chief operating officer, told the Wall Street Journal. The electronic-trading movement is a response to the increasingly global nature of financial investing. The smaller the world gets, the greater the search becomes among exchanges for ways to capture business from overseas. The Cincinnati Stock Exchange, which averages 1 million trades per day compared with 170 million per day on the New York Stock Exchange, turned totally automated in 1976. Other U.S. exchanges have computerized parts of their operations but thus far the switch to automated execution, which many see as a prerequisite to 24-hour trading, has been carried on exclusively by foreign exchanges. The Toronto Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange and a host of European financial markets use computers to execute at least part of their orders. Chicago's commodity futures and options exchanges have recently taken the electronic-trading lead in the United States. The Chicago Board Options Exchange owns a controlling interest in the Cincinnati Stock Exchange; the Chicago Mercantile Exchange will launch its after-hours automated-execution system, called Globex, this fall in partnership with Reuters; and the Chicago Board of Trade, the world's largest futures market, is working on an unusual hybrid trading system called Aurora, designed to recreate on a computer screen the characteristics of a commodities trading pit. ``It's so obvious that this is coming, 24-hours-a-day electronic trading, everywhere. It's just a matter of time.'' said Peter Schwartz, president of Global Business Network, a small research and consulting company based in Emeryville, Calif., that helped the London Stock Exchange develop a computerization strategy. But Eric K. Clemons, an associate professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School specializing in computer and financial issues, says that while the New York Stock Exchange probably could convert successfully to round-the-clock trading, it would require a massive investment in new technology and ``I don't see it as an improvement over what the exchange has today.'' What the New York Stock Exchange has today is an electronic delivery system that routes orders to the exchange floor, where they are handled by professional market makers called specialists. ``It's almost a cybernetic system, a man-machine synthesis, and I think it works very well,'' Clemons said. Proponents of electronic trading say the specialist system for stock trading, the raucous open-outcry auction tradition of the commodity markets and virtually every other trading system in which humans execute customer orders will inevitably be replaced by computers that can perform the same task faster and cheaper while keeping flawless records. ``I don't see how you're going to stop the march of technology any more than the people who made slide rules stopped the march of computers,'' said Junius Peake, a capital markets expert at the Peake-Ryerson Consulting Group Inc. of Englewood, N.J. Sophisticated institutional investors face an ever-expanding smorgasbord of opportunities. They trade U.S. stocks in New York, currency futures in Chicago, yen bonds in Tokyo, British pounds in London. Financial markets have responded by broadening their own offerings to include products that once were traded only in their home countries. Stocks such as IBM, General Motors and Matsushita Electric have become ``world class'' stocks, traded on exchanges both at home and abroad. Still, Japanese investors prefer to trade IBM in New York and most American players want to trade Matsushita in Tokyo because the markets for those stocks are larger at home than abroad. The more players there are in a given market, the more likely an investor is to find someone willing to take the opposite side of his trade at the price he wants. This is called market liquidity, and investors tend to trade in the most liquid market available. But the most liquid market is not always open. When it's morning in Tokyo, it's evening in New York. So Japanese investors seeking to trade IBM in New York, where they are likely to get the best deal, must wait for the New York Stock Exchange to open. A 24-hour electronic trading system would provide easy access to the market, but critics say there is no guarantee of liquidity. With no specialists on hand to take the opposing side of the trade, the order would dangle there, waiting for an opposing order to arrive. That's not what investors seek in a market. ``Liquidity follows liquidity and people don't trade where people don't trade,'' Clemons said. Thus, the greatest challenge facing electronic markets is simply getting enough people to use them. Reuters, which has 170,000 computer terminals in use by traders and brokers worldwide, has been highly successful in getting people to use its electronic products, which range from price-quotation machines to an off-exchange trading network called Instinet. But spokesman Robert Crooke said human behavior, not technology, will ultimately determine the shape of tomorrow's financial markets. ``Each system, whether completely automated, partially automated or in fact fully human, has its advantages and its place, and that place will always be dictated by the markets themselves,'' Crooke said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 56
<title> Prime (Lending) Rate Moves, Predictions
<relevant> The World Bank is raising interest rates for more prosperous Third World countries to 7.65 percent annually, the first such increase since the bank began lending at variable rates in 1982, officials said Wednesday. The rate will apply during the first six months of this year on $37 billion worth of loans to about 70 countries, said Sheldon Rappaport, a spokesman for the bank. For the second half of 1988, the rate was 7.59 percent. The increase amounts to only 0.06 percent but will cost the borrowers an additional $11 million, Rappaport estimated. The rate is based on the cost of the bank's own borrowings and will be recalculated in mid-1989. The bank gets most of its funds from borrowing on world markets. The bank is owned by 151 governmwents, with the United States holding the largest block of shares, and is the biggest single source of aid to Third World countries to help raise their living standards. It lends more than $19 billion a year. When it introduced variable interest rates on most of its loans in July 1982, the annual rate was 11.43 percent. Since then, the rate has been reduced each time it was recalculated, twice a year. The poorest countries, which borrow from the bank's International Development Association, will continue to get loans for 40 years at less than 1 percent a year, with long grace periods during which only interest is due.
<relevant> The World Bank is raising interest rates for more prosperous Third World countries to 7.65 percent annually, the first such increase since the bank began lending at variable rates in 1982, officials said Wednesday. The rate will apply during the first six months of this year on $37 billion worth of loans to about 70 countries, said Sheldon Rappaport, a spokesman for the bank. For the second half of 1988, the rate was 7.59 percent. The increase amounts to only 0.06 percent but will cost the borrowers an additional $11 million, Rappaport estimated. The rate is based on the cost of the bank's own borrowings and will be recalculated in mid-1989. The bank gets most of its funds from borrowing on world markets. The bank is owned by 151 governments, with the United States holding the largest block of shares, and is the biggest single source of aid to Third World countries used to help raise their living standards. It lends more than $19 billion a year. When it introduced variable interest rates on most of its loans in July 1982, the annual rate was 11.43 percent. Since then, the rate has been reduced each time it was recalculated, twice a year. The poorest countries, which borrow from the bank's International Development Association, will continue to get loans for 40 years at less than 1 percent a year, with long grace periods during which only interest is due.
<relevant> Bond prices rose Friday, pushed up by a stronger dollar and a government report showing the nation's employment is in line with expectations. The Treasury's closely watched 30-year bond gained 21-32 point, or about $6.50 for every $1,000 in face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 9.03 percent from 9.08 percent on Thursday. The Labor Department reported Friday that the civilian unemployment rate fell to 5.3 percent in December, tying a 14-year low, from 5.4 percent in November. During the final month of 1988, 279,000 new jobs were created. Analysts said the job growth was no stronger than expected and tended to ease concerns that the economy might be overheating. Investors also focused on figures showing that average wages remained flat at an average of $9.45 an hour. ``That gives some support to the notion that we have a strong economy but it hasn't set off a new inflationary spiral yet,'' said Carol Stone, an economist with Nomura Securities. Bond prices also got a boost from the rising dollar. Foreign exchange dealers attributed some of the currency's strength to the employment report because it indicated strength in the U.S. economy and raised the possibility of higher U.S. interest rates. Market observers had said before the jobs report was released that bond investors feared a substantial increase in non-farm jobs would set off a new round of inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income securities such as notes and bonds. Inflationary pressures in turn could prompt the Federal Reserve to tighten credit by boosting interest rates. But Marshall B. Front, an economist at the Chicago investment and mutual-fund management firm of Stein Roe &amp; Farnham, said that while a number of factors point to a stronger economy, a number of other indicators suggest the economy is slowing down. While interest rates, including the prime lending rate, could increase slightly over the next few weeks, ``short-term rates are in the process of cresting and we will see them begin to fall as more signs of an economic slowdown begin to show,'' Front predicted. In the secondary market for Treasury bonds, prices of short-term and intermediate government issues rose 1-32 point, intermediate maturities were 1-16 point to 5-16 point higher and long-term issues gained between 7-32 point and | point, accordig to the financial information service Telerate Inc. The movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value. The Shearson Lehman Hutton Daily Treasury Bond Index, which measures price movements on all outstanding Treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 2.22 to 1,128.32. Corporate issues also were higher. Moody's Investment Grade Corporate Bond Index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, advanced 0.93 to 293.68. The Bond Buyers Municipal Bond Index of 40 long-term bonds was unchanged at 91 6-32 and a yield of 7.78 percent. Yields on three-month Treasury bills were 8.55 percent as the discount rose 1 basis point to 8.27 percent. Yields on six-month bills were 8.96 percent as the discount remained unchanged at 8.47 percent. Yields on one-year bills were 9.17 percent as the discount fell 2 basis points to 8.50. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. The yield is the annualized return on an investment in a Treasury bill. The discount is the percentage that bills are selling below the face value, which is paid at maturity. The federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, was quoted at 9 1-16 percent late Friday, up from 815-16 percent late Thursday.
<relevant> The U.S. dollar finished sharply lower against the Japanese yen today, while share prices fell on the Tokyo Stock Exchange after interest rate hikes and central banks' dollar-buying intervention on overseas markets, traders said. The dollar finished at 128.05 yen, down 1.15 yen from Thursday's 129.20-yen close. The currency, which opened at 128.25 yen, moved in a range of 128.00-128.65 yen. The currency opened lower following a round of central bank intervention in European countries and the United States, said a dealer with a major commercial bank in Tokyo, speaking on condition of anonymity. But the dollar's downward move is likely to be a temporary trend, he added. Finance Minister Tatsuo Murayama told a press conference today that currency rates ``didn't move much,'' and have already returned to their level before the joint intervention. But Murayama hinted the United States could move to raise its own interest rates due to inflation worries. Other dealers said trading was not active ahead of President-elect Bush's inauguration speech later today, as investors were concerned Bush might indicate a new monetary policy. The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average, which shed 43.15 points the previous day, lost another 141.02 points, or 0.45 percent, to fall further to 31,170.37. The index, which lost 233.16 points at the end of the morning trading, could not erase the loss although it started to recover during the afternoon session. Volume traded on the first section was estimated at 1.1 billion shares. Following a 0.5 percentage-point interest rate hike in several European nations including West Germany, Switzerland and France, the index quickly plunged as investors moved to the sidelines or sold for profit- taking, said a Nikko Securities dealer. ``Now investors are mainly concerned how the U.S. monetary authorities would react. But the majority think that the U.S. central bank would maintain current discount rates even if it raises the prime lending rate,'' the dealer said.
<relevant> President Bush wants to require banks and thrift institutions to pay higher deposit insurance premiums as part of a plan to bail out the troubled savings and loan industry, but is recommending no direct fee on individual depositors. ``We intend to restore our entire insured deposit system to health,'' the president said Monday at a meeting with reporters at which he outlined a comprehesive program to save the troubled S&amp;L industry. The president recommended changes in the federal supervision of the savings and loan industry, which is struggling to resolve the difficulties of an estimated 350 faltering institutions. The president also said he would recommend increased Justice Department investigation of alleged wrongdoing in failed thrifts. U.S. workers increased their productivity by 1.4 percent last year, the government reported, an improvement over 1987 that nonetheless revived doubts about economic projections at the heart of President Bush's spending plans. The 1.4 percent gain in non-farm business productivity was up from 0.8 percent in 1987 and matched the average 1.4 percent annual gain experienced since the end of the 1981-82 recession, the Labor Department reported Monday. Total business productivity, including farming, fell at a 2.0 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter of 1988 because of a drop in farm productivity. Manufacturers reported a 3.2 percent increase in productivity last year, down from 3.4 percent in 1987, the Labor Department said. Policy-akers at the Federal Reserve, meeting this week to map monetary strategy for the year, will likely set the central bank on a collision course with the new administration and call into question the underlying tenets of President Bush's budget, private economists said. Analysts predicted Monday that the Fed will drive a variety of interest rates, including mortgage rates and banks' prime lending rate, higher in coming months in an effort to slow the economy to a more sustainable pace of growth. Those actions will run counter to the hopes of the Bush administration, which is looking for falling interest rates and robust economic growth to boost government revenues and make it easier to trim the budget deficit without breaking Bush's no-new-taxes pledge.  A U.S. offer of a $3.5 billion emergency loan remains open, officials said, even though Mexico has decided not to borrow the money and is trying to renegotiate payments on its crippling foreign debt. Treasury Secretary Pedro Aspe was beginning talks in Washington, armed with what aides described as a ``menu of options'' for repaying the $106 billion Mexico owes foreign creditors. Late Sunday, the Treasury Department issued a brief statement saying Mexico would not use the $3.5 billion short-term loan the U.S. offered in October. American Airlines' planned multibillion-dollar jetliner purchases will make its fleet much younger than the competition's, part of what some analysts called an innovative marketing strategy to sooth the flying public's safety concerns about old planes. To revamp its fleet of older wide-body jets, American is expected to announce Tuesday orders of between 50 and 60 McDonnell Douglas Corp. MD-11 jets, which carry about 320 passengers, and up to 100 of the smaller MD-80s. Employees of two companies battling hostile takeover bids from out-of-state pursuers have banded together and appealed to Gov. Michael S. Dukakis for help, but he told them his options are restricted. The governor said Monday an important reason he could not make a stronger commitment to Prime Computer Inc. and Polaroid Corp., two important Massachusetts employers, was that both companies are incorporated in Delaware. Nevertheless, he said, they deserve Massachusetts' protection. __ HOUSTON (AP) _ Pennzoil Co.'s disclosure of a stake in Burlington Resources Inc. raises speculation that the oil company has found a way to spend a big chunk of the $3 billion cache it won from a protracted battle with Texaco Inc. Although Pennzoil said Monday it had acquired about 12 million shares of Burlington as an investment, or about an 8 percent interest, the company did not rule out future transactions. BankAmerica Corp., continuing its turnaround, has announced its first quarterly dividend in more than two years. The common stock dividend of 15 cents per share was ordered Monday by the company's board of directors, meeting in Los Angeles rather than at the San Francisco headquarters of the holding company for Bank of America. Stock prices retreated Monday amid some evident doubts about the staying power of the market's recent rally. The Dow Jones industrial average, which started 1989 with five consecutive weeks of gains, fell 10.18 to 2,321.07. The dollar fell against several major foreign currencies but edged up against the British pound and Japanese yen. Bond prices finished mostly lower as the market awaited a new wave of government borrowing. Pork futures prices collapsed as wintry Midwestern conditions apparently had not slowed the movement of hogs to packing houses. Orange-juice futures declined; grain and soybean futures fell sharply; precious metals advanced; and energy futures weakened.
<irrelevant> The average interest rate on one-year, adjustable-rate mortgages rose to the highest level in more than 2{ years this week, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. said Friday. The average rate on the most popular type of adjustable-rate mortgage, the kind with caps on how high the rate can go, was 8.58 percent, up from 8.54 percent a week earlier. That was the highest level since May 9, 1986, when the rate was 8.59 percent, said the agency, known as Freddie Mac. The average rate on 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages this week was 10.71 percent, down from 10.81 percent a week before, it said.
<irrelevant> A poll Sunday suggests conservative Prime Minister Edward Seaga badly trails his socialist rival, Michael Manley, in the final days of a campaign marred by violence that has left at least eight people dead. Seaga, one of the United States' closest allies in the Caribbean, is rated a 14-point underdog in his bid for an unprecedented third consecutive term in Thursday's election. A poll published Sunday by The Daily Gleaner, an independent Kingston newspaper, said Manley's left-leaning People's National Party will win a comfortable 36-seat majority in the 60-seat Parliament. The nationwide sampling of 1,024 voters was carried out Jan. 27-29 by University of the West Indies political scientist Carl Stone. No margin of error was stated. It is Jamaica's first nationally contested election since 1980, when an estimated 700 people were killed in a nine-month campaign. Manley boycotted the last election, in 1983, in a dispute over voter registration at a time when his popularity was flagging. That gave Seaga's party all 60 Parliament seats. Nothing comparable to the 1980 mayhem has occurred, but isolated shootings, firebombings and stonings have left at least eight dead and 75 injured since the campaign opened Jan. 15. The Jamaican capital of Kingston, which has 1 million inhabitants, was calm Sunday with no evidence of extra security. Last week, Seaga said Manley's party was planning to provoke violence to intimidate voters in several constituences where support for the two parties is evenly split. James Kerr, an ombudsman appointed to investigate claims of political violence, said police received no complaints or information to substantiate the accusation. At a rally Friday in Crofts Hill, central Jamaica, Manley denied the charge. ``We must never allow 1980 to happen again in this country,'' he said. ``Even if you don't believe I have a good heart, at least believe I'm no fool.'' Seaga signed an executive order Saturday calling Jamaica's National Reserve into service to help police and the army keep order Thursday. He said 10,000 security force members would be involved in the operation. The issue is particularly sensitive with the election coming at the height of the Caribbean island's winter tourist season. People fear an explosion of violence could set back the industry's recovery from Hurricane Gilbert, which battered Jamaica on Sept. 12, killing 45 people and causing $1 billion damage. ``Jamaica cannot be too proud of its track record in conducting elections and should be keenly aware that this time the world is watching,'' said a Gleaner editorial. Heavily armed gangs roaming Kingston's slums traditionally have controlled large voting blocs in Jamaica. The main political parties always deny any involvement with the gangs, but until this campaign they did little to restrain them. In August, Seaga and Manley signed a peace accord pledging to refrain from inflammatory statements and banning ``the procurement or distribution of weapons for use in political activity.'' Seaga has consistently trailed Manley in opinion polls in recent years, although he closed to within two percentage points shortly after Hurricane Gilbert as he rallied the nation in regular television and radio broadcasts. The charismatic Manley has moderated his image since he was prime minister for eight years during the 1970s and embraced Cuba, alarming the United States and foreign investors. Now he says he would reopen the Cuban Embassy, closed by Seaga in 1980, but would pursue good relations with President Bush's administration and Western lending agencies. ``We will in due course restore formal diplomatic relations (with Cuba), but we will do so in a context that ensures that they do not again become any source of internal tension and do not cause any difficulties in the United States,'' Manley said Sunday. Seaga, 58, who was born in Boston and educated at Harvard, has forged extremely close ties with the United States. He was the first official foreign visitor to Ronald Reagan's White House in 1981 and was an outspoken supporter of the 1983 U.S. invasion of Grenada. Since taking office in 1980, Seaga has restructured the Jamaican economy, raising taxes and laying off thousands of government workers. The economy has shown steady growth but has never fully recovered from the near-collapse of the vital bauxite industry in 1983. The standard of living of Jamaica's 2.4 million people has continued to fall. Manley, 64, who was educated at the London School of Economics, accuses Seaga of neglecting basic social services such as health and education while more than doubling Jamaica's foreign debt to $3.8 billion. No party has won more than two consecutive five-year terms in Jamaica since universal suffrage was introduced in 1944.
<irrelevant> The nation's economy will continue to expand in 1989 but growth will slow slightly, according to a report by a panel of economists to be released Friday. The panel of 13 economists sponsored by the Conference Board projected that real gross national product will rise about 2.5 percent this year, down from about 2.7 percent in 1988. The group also projected that inflation would rise to 5 percent from 4.2 percent, the prime interest rate would hold steady at about 10.5 percent and unemployment would increase slightly to 5.5 percent. ``Under present circumstances, a slowdown this year should be looked upon not as a signal of economic weakness but as a necessity,'' said Edgar R. Fiedler, economic counselor at the Conference Board, a worldwide organization of corporate executives. ``Faster growth of the economy would seriously heighten anxiety about the financial markets, which in turn would be manifested in the form of higher interest rates, more inflation and perhaps an earlier recession,'' he said. The panel said the economic expansion of the last seven years will be fueled by capital spending and international trade. Spending on plant equipment is projected to climb 6 percent to 7 perent, down from a 10 percent rise in 1988. But members of the panel said they foresee no progress in reducing the federal budget deficit, instead projecting it will increase to $158 billion in fiscal 1989, up from $155 billion.
<irrelevant> The savings and loan industry, hypersensitive to high interest rates, is being squeezed by a rise in rates that is likely to drive more thrifts into insolvency and raise the cost to taxpayers of the Bush administration's proposed $90 billion federal bailout. `Increases in interest rates will have a substantial impact on the number of savings and loans which will fall into the category of either weakened or insolvent thrifts,'' Kevin Gottlieb, staff director of the Senate Banking Committee, said Monday. When interest rates rise, thrifts have to pay higher rates to hold and attract deposits. The money they earn on their variable-rate mortgage loans also rises, but not as much or as quickly. Each percentage point rise in interest rates will add about $6 billion to the cost of the S&amp;L bailout, according to estimates by SNL Securities of Hoboken, N.J. That estimate includes the higher rates the government will have to pay on the bonds it plans to issue to fund the bailouts. The estimate does not include the likelihood that higher rates will push more S&amp;Ls into insolvency, the firm says. Thrifts with more red ink on their books also will cost more to bail out. ``Taxpayers will foot a much larger proportion of the bill than what's being announced. It may be double, even,'' said Jim Marks, publisher of SNL Quarterly Thrift Digest. Yields on three-month Treasury bills _ an alternative to S&amp;L certificates of deposit for big investors _ have shot up to 8.8 percent from 5.6 percent a year ago. Edward J. Kane, a professor at Arizona State University, said Monday that according to a stricter accounting standard than the one used by the government, 750 thrifts were insolvent by last September. Since then, rising interest rates have helped push another 50 to 100 into their ranks, he said. Higher interest rates have caused a hemorrhage of thrift deposits. Net deposit withdrawals rose in December to a record of more than $8 billion, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board said Friday. Total deposits were about $972 billion. Some thrifts have concluded it is not financially worthwhile to raise their rates on deposits high enough to keep all their depositors. With fewer deposits, the thrifts have less money available to make new mortgage loans, but they would rather shrink and remain profitable. Because deposits are counted as liabilities on the books, thrifts can actually improve their net worth by allowing deposits to bleed away, said Edwin Gray, president of Chase Federal Bank in Miami and former chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. A silver lining in the S&amp;L crisis is that thrifts are somewhat better prepared to cope with high interest rates now than they were in the early 1980s, the last time interest rates soared. Most mortgages in their portfolios have adjustable rates, so mortgage payments rise when rates rise. In September 1981, only about 29 percent of thrifts' mortgages had adjustable rates. As of this past September, the proportion was 74 percent, according to James Barth, chief economist of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Stuck with fixed-rate mortgages and soaring short-term interest rates, 85 percent of thrifts were unprofitable in 1981, Barth said. As of September, the proportion of unprofitable thrifts was 30 percent, he said. Some thrifts also have taken steps to protect themselves from interest-rate fluctuations by raising some of their money through issuing bonds instead of taking in deposits. When interest rates rise, the thrifts don't have to raise payments on their bonds, while they do have to raise payments on their deposits. As of last September, about 11 percent of thrifts' capital came from borrowings such as bond issues, up from 3 percent in 1980, Barth said. Troubled thrifts have a harder time using such defensive strategies. It costs more for them to issue bonds and they have to have them fully backed with collateral. Also, troubled thrifts cannot easily afford to offer the incentives that would cause customers to choose adjustable-rate mortgages instead of fixed-rate mortgages, Gray said. Troubled institutions, which have the highest proportion of mortgage loans that aren't being paid, are squeezed the worst by rising rates. Their cost of funds is rising along with everyone else's but they have less of an offsetting gain on their loan portfolios.
<irrelevant> Financial evolution is producing some exotic species indeed in the world of home mortgages these days. Shoppers for loans to finance housing purchases now may encounter the ``interest only'' mortgage, the 40-year mortgage, or the 15-minute mortgage, just to name a few. In theory, these innovations, born of intense competition among lenders, provide borrowers with an ever-growing number of options to make home ownership work to their best advantage. But financial observers say it is important to separate mere gimmicks from good deals, and to concentrate on the total cost of a given loan. Forty-year and ``interest only'' mortgages have recently made their appearance at a few large big-city lending institutions. The prime target for both is first-time homebuyers who have to stretch especially hard to meet monthly payments. With the ``interest only'' mortgage advertised recently by one bank, the borrower does not begin repaying the principal on the loan until the sixth year. Conceivably, these propositions could provide access to the housing market for some people who couldn't otherwise qualify. But analysts point out that the potential benefits of either seem small. On a conventional mortgage, very little principal is paid back in the first five years anyway. And stretching out a loan from the customary 30 years to 40 yields a surprisingly small difference in the monthly payment. On a fixed 30-year, $100,000 mortgage at 10 percent interest, the monthly payment would be $877.57, calculates William Brennan, editor of the Financial Planning Reporter newsletter published by the accounting firm of Ernst &amp; Whinney. Extend the term of the loan to 40 years, and the monthly payment is reduced only to $849.15. The $28.42 difference is ``really meaningless,'' Brennan observes. One cost of this modest benefit is much slower reduction in the unpaid loan balance, leaving the borrower with less equity in the property. After 15 years of payments, the 30-year borrower would have worked the balance down to $81,644.56, while the 40-year borrower would still owe $93.446.16. With the adjustable-rate mortgages that are common these days, the same dubious tradeoffs apply. In fact, notes Robert Heady, publisher of several banking newsletters in North Palm Beach, Fla., the extra interest a 40-year borrower pays will increase should rates go up. On a $100,000 loan at 10.9 percent, he reckons, the 40-year borrower will wind up paying about $101,600 more in interest than the 30-year borrower. Should the rate increase to 12.9 percent, the difference expands to about $123,600. The stretch-out to 40 years means ``inviting a lot of pain down the road,'' Heady says. At the other end of the time scale, the 15-minute mortgage is the latest brainchild of Citicorp, one of the nation's biggest originators of home loans. ``Fifteen-minute,'' of course, refers not to the duration of the loan, but to the time Citicorp says it will take to process a mortgage application, rather than the usual three weeks to a month. According to the company, the 15-minute service will be done with a computer to approve or reject applications transmitted over telephone lines from the offices of real estate brokers and lawyers. There may be something to be said for such rapid service, replacing the agonizing wait that aspiring homeowners often endure while lending institutions decide their fate. But financial experts say the speed of processing is a separate question from matters that remain important for many years _ in particular, which lender's mortgage will cost you the least over the period in which you expect to own the home.
</top>
<top>
<num> 57
<title> MCI
<relevant> American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. on Thursday reported the first annual loss in its 104-year history, the result of a huge write-off to streamline for long-distance phone wars. The historic loss was no surprise to shareholders _ AT&amp;T forecast it last month _ but it nevertheless signaled the growing urgency of competition in the long-distance phone business. AT&amp;T took a $6.72 billion pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 1988 to cover costs of accelerating its transition to digital technology, which uses the language of computers to send voices and data over fiber-optic lines. The company is scrapping outdated analog phone equipment and moving, retiring or laying off 16,000 employees. AT&amp;T's stock was unchanged at $30.87{ in late afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday, reflecting investors' unconcern. The write-off has no effect on AT&amp;T's cash flow, ability to pay dividends or money available for investment. AT&amp;T lost $3.34 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31 and $1.67 billion in all of 1988. ``You say, `My gosh, what a huge charge.' But when it's AT&amp;T and it's such a large company, people just brush it off and look ahead to the next quarter,'' said Audrey Stevoff, an analyst at Duff &amp; Phelps Inc. in Chicago. AT&amp;T was forced to speed up its introduction of digital services to meet the competition from MCI Communications Corp. and US Sprint Communications Co., which have been steadily taking away its customers. The fight is most ferocious for Fortune 100 accounts, the giants such as General Electric Co., Ford Motor Co. and Du Pont Co. that have phone bills of millions of dollars a month. AT&amp;T, the only long-distance company with regulated rates, complains that federal regulation is preventing it from responding flexibly to special offers by unregulated MCI and US Sprint. ``I'm getting my clock cleaned,'' Joseph P. Nacchio, an AT&amp;T vice president who appears in commercials, complained to reporters this month in Washington, according to a trade publication, Report on AT&amp;T. ``I'm losing (customers) faster than I can count them right now.'' Responding to the threat, AT&amp;T is pushing hard for regulatory reform in Washington and has redeployed thousands of people into sales jobs. Meanwhile, its money-losing computer business got a big boost from a $1 billion Air Force contract last year. Executives of GE, Ford and Du Pont, all major customers of AT&amp;T, said in interviews Thursday that they consider themselves big winners from the cutthroat battle for their business. With new services, higher quality and lower prices, ``corporate America has really benefited by what really is almost entirely due to competition,'' said Stan Welland, GE's manager of corporate telecommunications. Du Pont uses high-volume data ``pipes'' to carry traffic between a research center in Victoria, Texas, and a supercomputer at its Wilmington, Del., headquarters. Ford keeps in touch with dealerships via phone links to computer terminals in the dealers' finance and service areas. ``Telecommunications is an area that 10 years ago was somewhat of a backwater. AT&amp;T took care of that for you. Today's it's an essential part of the technical infrastructure,'' said S.I. Gilman, Ford's executive director of information systems. Most residential customers and small businesses also are benefiting from the competition, but not as much. They don't use new services such as video conferencing. Also, higher local charges offset the drop in long-distance rates for people who don't make many long-distance calls. AT&amp;T pointed out that in spite of its loss from the one-time charge, its revenue in the fourth quarter and full year were the highest since the Bell System breakup five years ago. Without the charge, earnings would have risen 19 percent in the quarter and 11 percent for the full year. ``The charge for network modernization, despite its effect on short-term results, was driven by our determination to continue winning customers in the marketplace,'' AT&amp;T Chairman Robert E. Allen said in a statement. ``Underlying this action are clear indications that 1988 was a year of steady improvement in our operations.'' AT&amp;T's $3.34 billion fourth-quarter net loss compared with profits of $498 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $9.21 billion from $8.65 billion a year earlier. For the full year, the $1.67 billion loss compared to a profit of $2.04 billion, or $1.88 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $35.2 billion from $33.8 billion. AT&amp;T faces talks in April with the Communication Workers of America, which represents 135,000 employees. Union spokeswoman Gaye Williams Mack said Thursday the company is cutting hourly workers, ``but they're not cutting the fat out of management.'' MCI and US Sprint are not organized by the union.
<relevant> MCI Communications Corp. completed ``the best year in MCI's history'' with a five-fold jump in earnings and a 38 percent revenue increase in the last three months of 1988, the long-distance company said Wednesday. Washington-based MCI said it achieved the strong results through a combination of cost controls, new service offerings, a good sales and service organization and the increasing sophistication of its computerized network. MCI spent $6 billion over eight years to build its long-distance network, and the huge investment is beginning to pay off by attracting customers, said Daniel Akerson, the chief financial officer. ``We think it was a great quarter and an unbelievable year,'' Akerson said in an interview. MCI, invading the big-business strongholds of market leader American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., said it won contracts over the past year with Chrysler Corp., Cray Research Inc., Procter &amp; Gamble, the Social Security Administration, Merrill Lynch &amp; Co. and others. Reflecting the importance of big-business accounts, 1 percent of MCI's and AT&amp;T's customers account for roughly half of their volume of business, Akerson estimated. In contrast to MCI, the No.3 long-distance company, US Sprint Communications Co., has continued to lose money. But US Sprint has trimmed its losses lately and is continuing to increase its volume of business. AT&amp;T makes steady profits from long-distance, but it recorded the first annual loss in its history last year because of a one-time charge to cover the expense of speeding up its conversion to a digital network to meet the competition from MCI and US Sprint. MCI said it earned $122 million, or 46 cents a share, compared to $23 million, or 8 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $1.43 billion from $1.04 billion. For all of 1988, MCI said its earnings shot up to $346 million, or $1.23 a share, from $64 million, or 22 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue jumped 69 percent to $5.14 billion from $3.94 billion. Charges for early repayment of debt reduced the latest quarter's earnings by $10 million and the year-earlier quarter's earnings by $14 million, MCI said. Offsetting those charges, the company recorded pre-tax gains of $12 million in the latest quarter and $19 million in the year-earlier quarter from previously negotiated antitrust settlements.
<relevant> Stock prices declined slightly in active trading today as traders cashed in some of the market's strong January gains. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 8.39 to 2,333.93 by 2 p.m. on Wall Street. Losers slightly outnumbered gainers in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 652 up, 735 down and 538 unchanged. Analysts said traders were selling in the belief that the market was due for a pause or period of retrenchment after the 173.75-point rise in the Dow last month. That marked one of the most dramatic gains for January in recent years, surpassed only by a 262.09-point jump at the start of 1987. Analysts also noted some caution over recent evidence of continued strength in the economy. The Commerce Department reported this morning that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.6 percent in December, outpacing many advance estimates. On Friday, monthly statistics from the Labor Department are expected to show a good-sized gain in payroll employment for January. Compaq Computer climbed 2] to 72[. The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $2.18 a share, against $1.25 in the like period a year earlier. West Point-Pepperell gained 2 to 52}. Farley Inc. increased it offer for the company from $48 a share to $52 a share. Circle K, which said it retained a merchant banking firm to study ways to increase the return to its shareholders, rose 2] to 14~. MCI Communications added { to 25| as the most active issue in the over-the-counter market. MCI posted substantially higher fourth-quarter operating earnings. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .34 to 166.29. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was off .05 at 322.97. Volume on the Big Board reached 159.53 million shares with two hours to go.
<relevant> Stock prices showed a small loss in active trading today as traders cashed in some of the market's strong January gains. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped 3.93 to 2,338.39 by 3 p.m. on Wall Street. Losers slightly outnumbered gainers in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed issues, with 686 up, 758 down and 511 unchanged. Analysts said traders were doing some spotty selling in the belief that the market was due for a pause or period of retrenchment after the 173.75-point rise in the Dow last month. That marked one of the most dramatic gains for January in recent years, surpassed only by a 262.09-point jump at the start of 1987. Analysts also noted caution over recent evidence of continued strength in the economy. The Commerce Department reported this morning that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.6 percent in December, outpacing many advance estimates. On Friday, monthly statistics from the Labor Department are expected to show a good-sized gain in payroll employment for January. Compaq Computer climbed 2] to 72[. The company reported fourth-quarter earnings of $2.18 a share, against $1.25 in the like period a year earlier. West Point-Pepperell gained 2[ to 52~. Farley Inc. increased it offer for the company from $48 a share to $52 a share. Circle K, which said it retained a merchant banking firm to study ways to increase the return to its shareholders, rose 2] to 14~. MCI Communications added { to 25| as the most active issue in the over-the-counter market. MCI posted substantially higher fourth-quarter operating earnings. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .27 to 166.36. At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was up .07 at 323.09. Volume on the Big Board reached 181.04 million shares with an hour to go.
<relevant> MCI Communications Corp. said Thursday it will reduce its long-distance rates by $200 million annually beginning April 1 in response to federally ordered cuts in the charges it pays to connect with local phone systems. The reductions will apply to residential and business customers and could amount to cuts of as much as 12 percent for some callers, the company said. The Federal Communications Commission has ordered the nation's local phone companies to reduce their interstate calling access charges by $705 million on April 1. The local companies charge long-distance companies to help maintain the local phone systems. Since the breakup of the Bell system in 1984, the FCC has ordered a series of reductions in the charges local phone companies levy on long-distance companies. At the same time, it has required the long-distance carriers to pass along the savings to their customers. ``With this reduction, MCI will have dropped its rates more than 40 percent'' since 1984, MCI said. The $200 million reduction is subject to FCC approval.
<irrelevant> American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. today reported the first annual loss in its 104-year history, reflecting a previously announced charge for modernization that reduced net income by $3.96 billion. The results, which AT&amp;T had projected last month, resulted from a $6.72 billion pre-tax charge in the fourth quarter that covers the cost of scrapping outdated equipment and moving, retiring or laying off 16,000 employees. AT&amp;T's stock was rock solid after the announcement, unchanged at $30.87{ at midmorning in consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading. ``You say, `My gosh, what a huge charge.' But when it's AT&amp;T and it's such a large company, people just brush it off and look ahead to the next quarter. Most companies, it would just wipe them right out,'' said Audrey Stevoff, an analyst at Duff &amp; Phelps Inc. in Chicago. AT&amp;T has previously said the charge would have no effect on its cash flow, its ability to pay dividends or the money available for investment. Revenue in the fourth quarter and the full year set records for the period since the 1984 breakup of the Bell System. AT&amp;T said it had a net loss of $3.34 billion for the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with profits of $498 million, or 46 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $9.21 billion from $8.65 billion a year earlier. For all of 1988, AT&amp;T said it lost $1.67 billion compared to a profit of $2.04 billion, or $1.88 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $35.2 billion from $33.8 billion. Nynex Corp., one of the companies spun off from AT&amp;T in the 1984 breakup, separately reported a 6.1 percent rise in its fourth-quarter profit. The charge that resulted in AT&amp;T's historic annual loss came from speeding up its program of getting rid of old phone equipment and putting in new digital switches and other equipment that uses the language of computers. AT&amp;T said the changes would put the company in a better position to lower long-distance prices and meet the competition. AT&amp;T is in a fierce battle for customers, especially big businesses, with MCI Communications Corp. and US Sprint Communications Co. ``The charge for network modernization, despite its effect on short-term results, was driven by our determination to continue winning customers in the marketplace,'' said Robert E. Allen, AT&amp;T chairman. ``Underlying this action are clear indications that 1988 was a year of steady improvement in our operations.'' New York-based Nynex said its earnings in the quarter ended Dec. 31 rose to $342.2 million, or $1.74 a share, from $322.5 million, or $1.59 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $3.24 billion from $3.10 billion. For all of 1988, Nynex said its earnings rose to $1.32 billion, or $6.63 a share, from $1.28 billion, or $6.26 a share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $12.7 billion from $12.1 billion in 1987.
<irrelevant> AT&amp;T says it has labored under unfair pricing regulations for too long, and the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission tends to agree. FCC Chairman Dennis R. Patrick says it may be time to give AT&amp;T a break _ sort of _ and perhaps save telephone users billions of dollars. But some lawmakers say the FCC doesn't have the legal right to make such a change. Nonetheless, the commission will consider the subject Monday in a meeting that is sure to attract legions of attorneys and lobbyists who've formed battle lines on all sides of the issue. The FCC, under the deregulation-prone Patrick, has proposed to change the way the telephone industry leader, American Telephone and Telegraph Co., sets its prices for interstate services. Since the early 1960s, the government has allowed AT&amp;T a certain profit beyond its costs. But the FCC in August 1987 suggested replacing this ``rate-of-return'' regulation for ``dominant carriers'' such as AT&amp;T with ceilings on prices. That would include the seven regional Bell companies that AT&amp;T spun off in 1984. The commission said the change would encourage greater efficiency and innovation and save customers $1.6 billion over four years if all the dominant companies participated. The FCC last May proposed that AT&amp;T be allowed to raise rates 3 percent less than annual inflation. AT&amp;T applauded the proposal. ``It's a long overdue step,'' Larry Garfinkel, AT&amp;T vice president for marketing services, said in an interview Thursday. He said AT&amp;T has been ``thwarted'' by a cumbersome regulatory process that has prevented speedy introduction of new services and discount rates. He said competitors routinely file challenges to any new AT&amp;T discount pricing plan, claiming the plans are designed to undercut competition. ``They never intervene to drive our prices down. They intervene to drive our prices up,'' Garfinkel said. ``We have (business) customers shaking their heads in disbelief at what it takes for us to get a simple change in service offering,'' said Joe Nacchio, AT&amp;T vice president for business services. ``If we've got better flexibility to earn we will then be able to take those investments and reinvest,'' Nacchio added. Members of Congress are skeptical, however. A report last November from the Democratic staff of the House Energy and Commerce telecommunications subcommittee said the FCC proposal fails to assure that rates for regulated phone service will be ``just and reasonable,'' as required by the 1934 Communications Act. Congress intended, the report said, that rates balance carriers' right for a return on investment and consumers' right to prices in line with the costs of providing service. ``As currently structured, the price cap scheme will permit carriers to set prices that may deviate significantly from costs,'' the report said. ``There is no assurance that rates would remain even with a `zone' of reasonableness.'' Last week, in an attempt to allay concerns on Capitol Hill, Patrick sent a six-page letter and 60 pages of supporting documents to the chairman of the telecommunications subcommittee, Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., and to John D. Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of the full Energy and Commerce Committee. He assured Markey and Dingell that the process leading up to the price cap proposal had been subjected to a rigorous hearing process and that ``the record indicated that it might be possible to replace the distorted incentives created by rate-of-return regulation with more efficiency-oriented and consumer-oriented price cap incentives by making modest changes in existing rules and procedures.'' However, he said he would recommend a number of changes in the price cap proposal, including a delay in implementing the plan for the regional Bell companies and other local exchange carriers. He said he also would recommend establishing separate price cap ``baskets'' for AT&amp;T's business and residential customers to prevent the company from raising residential prices to finance rate reductions for businesses. ``These improvements also will provide residential customers greater assurances of rate stability _ and a larger share of potential AT&amp;T efficiency gains,'' Patrick said. He also proposed an ``automatic stabilizer'' which he said would ensure that local carriers' earnings ``remain within the zone of reasonableness and that consumers share in the efficiency gains price cap regulation is designed to generate.''
<irrelevant> Federal Communications Commission Chairman Dennis R. Patrick, acknowledging concerns on Capitol Hill about a proposal to revamp the way AT&amp;T sets its prices for interstate services, on Monday postponed a decision on the plan until March. A decision by the FCC on a so-called rate cap method of pricing for American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co.'s long-distance services had been scheduled for Monday. But after members of Congress said the FCC may not have legal authority to make such a change, Patrick issued a statment prior to the meeting saying he would defer a vote until March to give lawmakers more time to study the plan. ``Given the importance of this docket, the complexity of the docket and in order to accommodate the interest in some additional briefings and the provision of some additional briefing information, I have agreed to reschedule this item for the meeting on March 16,'' Patrick said at Monday's hearing. ``I believe it is very important for the commission to craft regulations which will improve the incentives that are facing dominant carriers,'' Patrick said. ``On the other hand, the Congress is intensely interested in this docket. ... I would hope that in the spirit of the new administration that we can use this as a foundation to establish a more constructive dialogue with members on both sides of the aisle with respect to this matter and other matters that are pending before the commission.'' Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees telecommunications matters, welcomed Patrick's decision to delay. ``I think the commission acted wisely,'' Dingell, who had criticized the FCC proposal, said in a statement. ``The Congress had a number of concerns about the impact of the price caps proposal and the FCC appears to be addressing them. As the details of the plan receive public scrutiny and go through the congressional hearing process, I hope the spirit of cooperation with Congress will continue.'' Since the early 1960s, the government has allowed AT&amp;T a certain profit beyond its costs. But the FCC proposed replacing this so-called rate-of-return regulation for ``dominant carriers'' such as AT&amp;T with ceilings on prices. That would include the seven regional Bell companies that AT&amp;T spun off in 1984. The commission said its proposal would encourage greater efficiency and innovation and save customers $1.6 billion over four years if all the dominant companies participated. The FCC last May proposed that AT&amp;T be allowed to raise rates 3 percent less than annual inflation. AT&amp;T said in a statement it was ``disappointed and frustrated'' by Patrick's deferral, and that every day a decision was delayed, ``the public loses.'' BellSouth, one of the seven regional phone companies that would be affected by the new pricing scheme, said ``the commission appears to have stepped away from an opportunity to save telephone users billions of dollars.'' Another regional company, Bell Atlantic, said ``we are sorely disappointed that the FCC and Congress have been unable to resolve their differences over how to best implement a price cap plan that will benefit consumers, the telecommunications industry and the nation.'' Lawmakers had been skeptical of the new plan. ``As currently structured, the price cap scheme will permit carriers to set prices that may deviate significantly from costs,'' said a report last November from the Democratic staff of the House Energy and Commerce telecommunications subcommittee. ``There is no assurance that rates would remain even with a `zone' of reasonableness.'' On Jan. 19, in an attempt to allay lawmakers' concerns, Patrick sent a letter and supporting documents to the chairman of the telecommunications panel, Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., and to Dingell. He assured Markey and Dingell that the price cap proposal had not been rushed through by his staff and that he had recommended a number of changes in the plan, including a delay in implementing the proposal for the regional Bell companies and other local exchange carriers. He said he also would recommend establishing separate price cap ``baskets'' for AT&amp;T's business and residential customers to prevent the company from raising residential prices to finance rate reductions for businesses. He also proposed an ``automatic stabilizer,'' which he said would operate to ensure that local carriers' earnings ``remain within the zone of reasonableness and that consumers share in the efficiency gains price cap regulation is designed to generate.''
<irrelevant> American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. plans to drop its rates for basic interstate long-distance service by an average 1.6 percent on April 1, for a total annual savings to customers of $533 million. A consumer advocate complained, however, that for the cuts such heavy-use periods as nights and weekends were insignificant. The rate cut, which is subject to approval by the Federal Communications Commission, would be the eighth price reduction since AT&amp;T shed its local operating companies in 1984. Since that time, AT&amp;T long-distance rates have dropped more than 39 percent, the company said Wednesday. The proposed rate reduction reflects lower costs for connecting to local telephone networks. Those costs will drop April 1 when the charge residential and small business customers pay to maintain local phone network _ the so-called subscriber line charge _ rises 30 cents per month to $3.50. With customers paying more of the costs to maintain the local network, long-distance companies have had to pay less. The FCC has required AT&amp;T, the largest long-distance company and the only one subject to federal rate regulation, to pass along these savings to customers by lowering rates. But while most long-distance rates would go down under the new proposal, prices for basic long-distance calls under 292 miles would increase an average of 4.7 percent _ a little less than a penny a minute. Such calls account for about one-third of AT&amp;T's interstate traffic. Also, daytime price cuts would be larger than evening price cuts, and night-weekend prices would not change. Dave Thompson, a spokesman for the rival MCI Communications Corp., said the company had not had a chance to study AT&amp;T's proposal thoroughly, ``But, as usual, we plan to remain competitive with AT&amp;T.'' Janis Langley, a spokeswoman at another competitor, US Sprint, said: ``In the past we have followed suit, and I anticipate that we will do that in this issue also. Those reductions affect us in a slightly different way, but we will pass on whatever is appropriate (to our customers).'' Gene Kimmelman, legislative director for the Consumer Federation of America, complained that AT&amp;T was not cutting prices signigicantly in the heavily used night and weekend long-distance time periods. ``It's unfair that consumers have to pay 30 cents more on their local bill without receiving any rate reduction for the long-distance service they use most,'' Kimmelman said in an interview. He said the price cut plan bodes ill for customers if AT&amp;T is given more flexibility to set prices, as has been proposed by FCC Chairman Dennis R. Patrick. ``If this is a sign of what AT&amp;T does when given pricing flexibility, it means that less regulation will deny consumers the price reductions for evening, night and weekend services they've experienced in the last three or four years,'' Kimmelman said. Under AT&amp;T's proposal: _Basic long-distance service prices would drop an average 1.6 percent. Day prices would decrease 3.8 percent, while evening prices would decrease 0.4 percent. _Rates for AT&amp;T WATS calls would drop an average 3.9 percent. _PRO WATS rates would drop an average 3.8 percent. _AT&amp;T MEGACOM WATS rates wouild drop 1.1 percent, and AT&amp;T MEGACOM 800 prices would be 5.2 percent lower. _Basic AT&amp;T 800 service would drop 0.9 percent in price, while 800 Readyline service would decrease 3.3 percent. Beginning July 1, AT&amp;T 800 service will be billed according to distance, and there will be additional price reductions of 1.9 percent for 800 service and 2 percent for 800 Readyline. _Software Defined Network Service prices will decline an average 6.1 percent.
<irrelevant> Nynex Corp. said Thursday William C. Ferguson will succeed Delbert C. Staley as its chairman and chief executive after Staley retires on Sept. 30. Nynex is the regional Bell holding company for New York and New England, and Staley had served as its chief since its creation in the breakup of the Bell System in 1984. Ferguson, 58, has been a vice chairman of Nynex since 1987. He was president and chief executive of New York Telephone Co. from 1983 to 1986. Staley will turn 65, the company's mandatory retirement age, in September. In an interview, Staley said he felt he was leaving the company in good shape but said Nynex continues to go through the transition that began with the Bell System breakup. Ferguson said regulation is inhibiting Nynex's ability to respond to customers' needs. He said the company was let down by a ruling by U.S. District Judge Harold Greene this week that barred the company from entering the overseas long-distance business through a trans-Atlantic fiber-optic cable venture. ``We're still assessing our options on (how to respond to Greene's decision),'' Ferguson said. ``We're very disappointed. Everyone seems to agree we have a global economy. Therefore to restrict and inhibit the major players doesn't make sense.'' Ferguson will become chief executive and president on June 1, then drop the newly created title of president when he becomes chairman on Oct. 1, Nynex said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 58
<title> Rail Strikes
<relevant> Bus and rail traffic ground to a halt today and Portugal's state TAP airline operated limited services as 50,000 public transport workers went on strike to protest the government's low wage and benefits, reports said. Union officials said about 95 percent of the bus, street car, ferry boat and commuter services were paralyzed in Lisbon and Oporto, the country's two main cities, and that national rail services also had stopped. Officials at the state airline TAP said today that about half the company's scheduled flights faced cancellation. Workers for the many state industries are protesting a loss in purchasing power, saying wage rises granted last year by the government were inadequate because of inflation.
<relevant> Airports handling heavy Eastern Airlines traffic are boosting police patrols, designating picket areas and mapping contingency plans for the expected strike this weekend of the airline's Machinists union. In South Florida, home region of the Miami-based carrier, all three regional airports began planning days ahead of the Machinists' strike deadline at 12:01 a.m. Saturday how to keep operations running smoothly. In St. Paul, Minn., a federal judge issued an order barring Northwest Airlines' 21,000-member Machinists' union from staging a sympathy strike in the event of a walkout. U.S. District Judge Paul Magnuson said his temporary restraining order ``is in the best interests of the public'' to avoid disrupting flights. The order, which had been sought by the Eagan-based airline, remains in effect until a March 13 hearing on whether to grant Northwest's request for a preliminary injunction against the union. Guy Cook, chairman of the Machinists' local at Northwest, called Magnuson's ruling ``another nail in the coffin of labor people.'' At Miami International Airport, adjacent to Eastern's corporate headquarters, extensive preparations have been made ``to maintain the airport operating and protect the public's right of access to the airport,'' according to Dade County Aviation Department spokeswoman Amalia Fernandez. There will be heavy weekend staffing, strictly designated picketing areas, extra tow trucks to keep ramps and roads clear, and additional Metro-Dade police officers on duty throughout the sprawling facility, Ms. Fernandez said. Additional staff will be assigned to airport terminals to help stranded or delayed passengers, she said. On Thursday, a caravan of about 2,000 Machinists slowly drove vehicles past the Miami airport terminal, causing a massive traffic jam that angered airline passengers. Similar protests were held in several other cities, including Newark, N.J. At Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport north of Miami, Broward County Sheriff's Lt. Jack Greeney, Executive Office of the department's airport division, said he plans to double airport deputy patrols Friday night. Greeney said he has been in touch with both the local Machinists' union and Eastern management to seek cooperation in keeping heads cool in the event of a strike. ``We've informed both of them we're not going to tolerate any acts of violence from anyone,'' Greeney said. At Palm Beach International Airport, operations spokesman Jerry Allen, like his counterparts at several other Eastern-linked airports around the country, spent Thursday meeting with police and city officials for strike preparations. Additional security arrangements also were established at airports in Atlanta, Washington, Newark, Seattle and Philadelphia. In both Washington and Newark, officials expressed additional concern over possible rail strikes in solidarity with Eastern's machinists. In the New York area, commuter railroads are expecting to be hit by a secondary strike if the Machinists walk out as threatened. The Long Island Rail Road, which has about 135,000 daily riders, and the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, which carries 95,000 daily commuters, both are vulnerable, along with New Jersey Transit and freight railroads. In Washington, the head of Amtrak said the national passenger railroad would continue limited operations for only a few days if picketed by workers supporting any strike against Eastern. W. Graham Claytor Jr., president of Amtrak, also said that if Eastern is struck and sympathetic workers do not picket the railroad, Amtrak would add trains between New York and Washington and possibly between New York and Boston. Amtrak spokesman R. Clifford Black in Washington said a strike in the area by rail workers would affect 5,000 commuters who travel daily by train into and out of the capital.
<relevant> The following is a list of some of the Eastern Airlines strike contigency plans announced by major airlines, railroads and bus companies: _Eastern said customers with questions about service should call 1-800-EASTERN. _Amtrak said it would add 12 daily trains between New York and Washington. In the event of a secondary strike, the rail line said it would attempt skeleton service run by supervisors. Amtrak carries 33,000 passengers on 108 trains a day in the Northeast corridor and 28,000 daily passengers elsewhere. _Pan American World Airways said it would add two or three flights per hour on its shuttle service from New York to both Boston and Washigton. The airline is considering operating larger planes to accommodate Eastern passengers on service from New York to Florida. No extra flights were planned. _Continental Airlines said it would honor some Eastern tickets but planned no additional service. _Delta Air Lines said it would consider adding flights from Eastern's Atlanta hub to Florida and from Northeast points south. It planned to honor Eastern tickets, with certain conditions. _United Airlines said it had no plans to increase service. It planned to honor some Eastern tickets. _American Airlines said it would honor all Eastern full-fare first class and coach tickets but no Eastern discount tickets with penalties unless they were reissued by Eastern. No expanded service was planned. _Greyhound Lines said it planned expanded bus service beginning Monday.
<relevant> A federal judge reserved judgment Saturday on whether to block sympathy strikes by railroad workers ready to honor Eastern Airlines machinists' picket lines, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said. U.S. District Judge Robert Patterson told lawyers for the New York area commuter rail lines and the striking machinists at 9:30 p.m. that he would not make a decision Saturday, said MTA spokesman John Cunningham. ``The judge advised the lawyers to be prepared to come back tomorrow sometime after 10 a.m. to possibly answer further questions,'' he said. Cunningham said it was unclear if the lawyers would be summoned to meet with Patterson on Sunday, but said MTA lawyers were prepared to meet with him. The MTA, parent company of the Long Island Rail Road and the Metro-North Commuter Railroad, joined by New Jersey Transit, asked Patterson earlier Saturday to issue a temporary restraining order against the threatened sympathy strike, Cunningham said. Union mechanics and baggage handlers on strike against Eastern Airlines have said they plan to mount secondary picket lines at commuter railroads on Monday morning, particularly in the Northeast. In Philadelphia, officials of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority have already obtained a court order aimed at preventing a sympathy strike. SEPTA officials said the authority hoped its court order, issued Friday night, would keep railroad union workers on the job even if the Machinists Union sets up pickets Monday. According to the complaint filed Friday, SEPTA maintained that under their contract, its nine railroad unions and their 1,000 members can honor picket lines set up by other unions only if those unions have contracts with SEPTA. In Boston, the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority said it was taking steps to assign extra buses Monday morning to help move commuters in case of a strike. Amtrak, which operates the rail system on behalf of the MBTA, had no immediate plans to seek a court order to stop the expected walkout, a spokeswoman in Washington said. About 25,000 people travel by MBTA commuter railways on a typical workday. In their request for an injunction, the New York area transit systems made an argument similar to SEPTA's, saying the employees are ``contractually obligated to work and thus must cross any picket line established by the International Association of Machinists,'' said Simon Gourdine, director of labor relations at the MTA. Union leaders at the metropolitan-area rail lines had said they would honor the picket lines and bring to a halt the trains that carry some 320,000 commuters into Manhattan each weekday. Ed Yule, general chairman of the United Transportation Union for the LIRR, the nation's largest commuter railroad, said he could not immediately say how he would advise his workers if Patterson issued a restraining order. ``It's a union leader's dilemma,'' he said. Should the strike go on, MTA chairman Robert Kiley predicted ``absolute chaos,'' even though officials made plans for such things as extra buses and traffic control people to try to handle the crush of commuters. No transit job actions were reported Saturday. The LIRR has about 135,000 daily riders, Metro-North carries 95,000 people from the northern suburbs and NJ Transit carries about 90,000. The Port Authority-Transit Hudson line, or PATH, which carries commuters from northern New Jersey into New York City, did not take part in the request for the injunction, officials said.
<relevant> Eastern Airlines pilots, who have virtually shut down the carrier by honoring the picket lines of striking Machinists, are risking not only their careers but the existence of the airline, a company spokesman said Sunday. ``By continuing to stay out, the pilots are committing economic suicide,'' spokesman Robin Matell said at a late-morning news briefing discussing the effects of the Machinists union strike, in its second day Sunday. ``This is a pilot's strike. There should be no mistake about that, and it's a pontentially tragic mistake,'' Matell said. ``It places 3,600 pilot careers in jeopardy and it risks the very existance of a great airline,'' he said. ``But maybe, just maybe, it's not too late.'' Matell said that about 150 pilots had crossed the picket lines Saturday, and said there were indications more would work Sunday. Eastern was able to get only 85 of its normal 1,000 Saturday flights into the air because the pilots couldn't be matched with available aircraft quickly enough, Matell said. Eastern expected to fly 125 flights Sunday, and had managed to get 12 up by 10 a.m., he said. Eastern managers thought they had prepared for the stike by hiring non-unionists and slashing the weekend schedule by up to 75 percent, but those plans ripped apart when most pilots and flight attendants honored picket lines. Ron Cole, a spokesman for the pilots union, had said Saturday that ``It's very clear the airline isn't going to fly without us.'' Meanwhile, sympathizers across the country were mobilizing for massive pickets Monday that threatened rush-hour nightmares, especially in the congested New York metropolitan area. Strikers planned picketing at commuter railroads and received assurances that no rail workers would cross their lines. The walkout that began at 12:01 a.m. Saturday by 8,500 mechanics, bag handlers and ground crews escalated a 17-month union-management battle at the nation's seventh-largest airline, which ordinarily schedules more than 1,000 flights with 100,000 passengers daily. Both sides were deadlocked on $150 million in wage concessions that company boss Frank Lorenzo demanded. Talks collapsed in Washington at midnight Friday and no new discussions were planned. The main target of the striker hostility was Lorenzo, head of Texas Air Corp., which bought Eastern in 1986. He is widely mistrusted by Eastern workers because of what they call his triumphant union-crushing campaign at sister carrier Continental Airlines in 1983. Many accuse him of provoking the strike to do the same at Eastern. Battered by years of labor tension and growing competition in the deregulated airline business, Eastern has racked up nearly $2.5 billion in debt and claims to be losing more than $1 million a day.
<irrelevant> Sudan's prime minister promised political change Sunday but charged that demonstrators who rioted against price increases were ``struck by madness'' and seeking illegal political gains. At least four people died, apparently all in one Khartoum shooting incident, during four days of street violence last week that led to a general strike. After the strike began Thursday, the government backed down, rescinding steep price increases and making salary hikes for millions of Sudanese retroactive to July 1. The demonstrators then changed their focus mainly into a protest of Prime Minister Sadek Mahdi's failure to endorse a draft peace accord signed Nov. 16. The protests finally ended Saturday. Trade unions and political parties also remain unsatisfied with the government's stand. They scheduled a meeting with Mahdi on Monday to discuss further economic reforms and peace. In a nationally broadcast speech marking Sudan's 33rd anniversary of independence from Britain and Egypt, Mahdi named no names in his bitter attack on demonstration organizers. ``Some people want to make use of legal differences, some who have been struck by madness,'' Mahdi said at a rally in el-Obeid, 200 miles southwest of Khartoum. ``For them to try and develop these differences into an uprising is harmful and wrong. Mahdi promised political changes but didn't specify whether he meant economic reforms or stepping up efforts to end the war. ``Our next steps in the government are holding wide consultations and serious, responsible studies to review our performance,'' he said in the speech broadcast over the official Omdurman Radio. The Democratic Unionist Party, which negotiated the peace treaty with southern rebels, has quit the governing coalition. Party leaders said they wanted to express sympathy with the strikers and to dramatize their outrage at Mahdis' handling of the proposed agreement to end Sudan's 5{-year-old civil war. The Democratic Unionists dominate the 2-million-member Sudanese Workers' Trade Union Federation, which brought the people into the streets and called the general strike. It acted after the government increased prices of essential commodities by up to 600 percent and imposed a 15-percent across-the-board sales tax. Government sources said the premier is expected to announce a new coalition Tuesday with the fundamentalist National Islamic Front replacing the centrist Democratic Unionists as junior partner to Mahdi's Umma Party. In a radio message from the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa on Saturday, renegade army Col. John Garang, the rebel leader, described the outlook for peace in the New Year as bleak but said it could have been promising. Garang blamed Mahdi's ignoring the tentative peace plan for the impasse in the peace process. Rebel leader Garang took up arms in 1983 to fight the Moslem-dominated government in Khartoum for economic, social and political changes in the mainly Christian and animist south.
<irrelevant> British Rail will pay about $18,000 in immediate compensation to relatives of the 34 people killed in last month's Clapham rail crash, officials said Thursday. The sum would be given in advance of consideration for other possible compensation awards following the Dec. 12 disaster, said a spokesman for the state-run rail service. ``In many cases, this payment for bereavement will be only part of the overall compensation paid,'' said the spokesman. British Rail also offered families $3,600 in hardship compensation immediately following the triple-train crash in south London. The morning rush-hour crash injured more than 100 people and killed 33 others outright. Another victim died later of injuries. British Rail said that improperly installed signal equipment during a modernization of signals probably caused the accident, but is still investigating.
<irrelevant> Intense negotiations between troubled Eastern Airlines and its largest union, in a contract dispute for more than a year, began Friday under the direction of the chairman of the National Mediation Board. Management negotiators headed by Tom Matthews, senior vice president for human resources, and Machinists negotiators led by District 100 President Charles E. Bryan began meeting Friday morning behind closed doors at a Key Largo, Fla., resort. No deadline has been set. A source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said hotel rooms have been reserved for two weeks. Little progress was made in the first day of talks, sources said. Chairman Walter Wallace of the National Mediation Board flew here Thursday from Washington to oversee the talks, which will continue daily late into the night, unless Wallace and mediator Harry Bickford decide the two sides are making no progress. A federal declaration of an impasse would trigger a 30-day cooling-off period, after which the 8,500-member union could strike and management would impose its own work conditions. The principals promised to work for a settlement in the current talks. ``Mediators are always optimistic, but we have a ways to go,'' said Bickford, who's directed the mediation since Jan. 26. Mediation began then after the two sides' negotiations stalled. Wallace's presence adds to the pressure on the negotiators to settle. Such a high-level entry into the mediation usually wouldn't come until the 30-day cooling-off period. ``He's here to add his expertise to the effort,'' Bickford told The Miami Herald. ``As always, we want to avoid a work disruption,'' Bryan said earlier. Eastern spokesman Robin Matell said management wants a settlement, although Eastern executives have been lobbying for months for declaration of an impasse. They say setting a 30-day deadline will get the talks moving. The two sides have been $200 million apart since July. The Machinists' last offer called for a $50 million raise; the company asked $150 million in wage concessions, mainly from the non-mechanics such as baggage handlers and janitors who make up about half the Machinists union. Union leaders have suggested Eastern wants a strike so it can try to break the union. But Eastern officials say they want to end public perceptions that the airline is beset by labor strife and get on with cost-cutting needed to reduce losses that totaled $233.7 million for the first three quarters of 1988.
<irrelevant> About 1,600 passengers climbed aboard the green-and-white cars of the Tri-Rail commuter line Monday, eager to take part in the first day of regular service on south Florida's new commuter train. ``It's beyond our expectations,'' Broward County Commissioner Ed Kennedy said of initial response to the train line, which runs between West Palm Beach and Miami. ``Our objective is to hold those who rode it and build on that.'' Kennedy, chairman of the Tri-County Commuter Rail Organization, said passenger totals should grow as communities improve bus connections and traffic worsens on Interstate 95. The 67-mile train line was born as an answer to traffic problems expected during almost five years of planned construction to widen I-95 between Boca Raton and Miami. But officials hope it will become popular enough to survive beyond that. The federal government provided 90 percent of the $118 million needed for the trains, with the state and local governments picking up the rest. Federal transportation officials are carefully watching the project, the largest of several in the nation using existing Amtrak or freight tracks to create commuter lines. The track record on mass transit in South Florida is not good. Metrorail, a $1 billion elevated railway system in Dade County, has failed to attract many riders. Commuter Bill Morgan said he was riding because ``the drivers in South Florida are the worst I've ever known.'' Adam White, a commuter who boarded in Palm Beach County, said riding the train ``is less stressful. You can think more ... plan the week more.'' Kennedy said he hopes to see the daily passenger total grow to 14,000 in three years. He said he knew of only two problems Monday morning: a malfunctioning switch that delayed a train 20 minutes; and a 20 mph speed limit on a stretch of track in Dade County that needs to be lifted. Longer range problems include an $800,000 station near the Fort Lauderdale airport that may be torn down because it is directly underneath the flight path of planes and a shortage of bus service to many of the stations. No fares will be charged for riding the train until May 1, when a one-way trip of any length will cost $2.
<irrelevant> The chairman of the National Mediation Board on Tuesday blamed news leaks for scuttling the talks he led between Eastern Airlines and its largest union. However, Walter C. Wallace wouldn't say what he'll do about company calls for an impasse declaration or a warning from the international Machinists president of a potential ``nationwide disruption of service.'' Wallace also didn't lay blame for the end of the talks. Wallace abruptly left Key Largo, Fla., Monday on the fourth day of intense talks he set in hopes of resolving a 15-month-old contract dispute between Eastern and its 8,500-member Machinists union. In a statement from Washington, Wallace said he stopped the sessions ``because the prearranged conditions planned and necessary to the success of such talks were compromised, undermining the collective bargaining process and mediation by the (National Mediation Board.)'' Wallace said bargaining ``in a fish bowl yields nothing. In such situations, the parties tend to make proposals and statements aimed at public relations objectives rather than the bargaining process. The board will continue its efforts to bring the parties together under proper circumstances where a solution of the labor dispute can be achieved.'' Mediation board officials declined comment, but gave no sign they would declare an impasse. That would start a 30-day deadline, after which the union could strike and Eastern could impose its own work conditions. Union leaders charge that Eastern wants to provoke a strike so it can try to break it and bust the union. Eastern says deadline pressure is needed to get the negotiations moving. The mediation board, which received the case in January 1988, could schedule more talks, declare an impasse, or ask both sides to submit to binding arbitration. Both sides would have to agree to arbitration. Machinists District 100 leader Charles E. Bryan on Monday charged that the company sabotaged the talks by refusing to make any new offers and by putting out what he called deceptive employee bulletins that were easily obtained by the news media. Eastern officials denied they had done anything wrong. Meanwhile, reporters obtained a Jan. 3 letter to Wallace from William W. Winpisinger, Washington-based international president of the Machinists. Winpisinger's letter complained about the pressure being put on the mediation board by Eastern, its Texas Air Corp. parent and Eastern supporters. Florida Gov. Bob Martinez, the Greater Miami Chamber of Commerce and editorials in leading newspapers have called for declaration of an impasse. Winpisinger countered by saying the international union would support Eastern Machinists, if necessary, with ``self-help against Eastern Airlines and ... secondary activity against a number of other major carriers. ``...The responsibility for a nationwide disruption of service will be laid at the doorstep of Eastern Airlines and its allies in this dispute because it has adamantly refused to make any counteroffer whatsoever to the proposals of the IAM,'' Winpisinger's letter said. The Machinists represent workers at Trans World Airlines, USAir, United Airlines and Northwest Airlines. Winpisinger was out of town Tuesday and couldn't be reached for comment. Eastern, meanwhile, reportedly has been trying to sell some of its planes, its airport gates in Philadelphia and some Canadian routes, on the heels of the recent sale of its Northeast shuttle service to developer Donald Trump for $365 million in cash. ``Clearly, the happenings of this last weekend will make us move forward faster on some asset sales than perhaps we would have done otherwise,'' Joseph B. Leonard, Eastern's senior vice president and chief operating officer, said Monday. Also on Monday, the Internal Revenue Service gave Eastern permission to reschedule $105 million in pension payments due last Sept. 15. Eastern now has until Sept. 15 of this year to finish making periodic payments into the employee pension plans. Leonard said the payments would be financed by pending asset sales. Eastern, saying the money-losing carrier's survival is threatened by failure to reach a settlement with the Machinists, again called for declaration of a 30-day deadline. The company estimates losses at $1 million a day. The two sides, who last met in intense mediation in July, have been some $200 million apart. The Machinists, representing 8,500 mechanics, baggage handlers and other ground service workers, or more than one-fourth of Eastern's employees, were seeking a $50 million raise, the company said. Eastern was seeking $150 million in concessions, mostly from the non-mechanics, but said it was offering job security and training programs. Eastern, which posted $233.7 million in losses for the first three quarters of 1988, has been owned 2{ years by Houston-based Texas Air, which also owns non-union Continental Airlines.
</top>
<top>
<num> 59
<title> Weather Related Fatalities
<relevant> A messy mix of snow, sleet, freezing rain and rain hit the Midwest and East today, as storms dropped as many as 8 inches of snow in the West and unleashed winds of up to 80 mph. Snow fell in Iowa, Michigan and Wisconsin, where Menomonee Falls received more than 3 inches. Rain, freezing rain and sleet were reported as far south as North Carolina. Weather advisories for snow and freezing drizzle were issued for Iowa, Illinois and Wisconsin and for snow and freezing rain in Indiana, lower Michigan and Pennsylvania. A winter storm warning was in effect in extreme northeast Ohio. Winter weather advisories were also posted in West Virginia, Virginia, Maryland, New Jersey, Delaware, New York City and New York state's Long Island. The deaths of two homeless men in New York City were blamed on the cold. Thunderstorms boomed over Illinois and Indiana. Rain was scattered over the rest of the Ohio Valley and the Tennessee Valley. Snow also fell over much of the West, and rain fell along sections of the Pacific Coast. In Nevada, Lake Tahoe ski areas received 1 to 2 feet of snow. Ten inches fell between Ely and Elko, and 6 to 8 inches fell in Eureka, which also had blowing and drifting snow. The snow and winds of 60 to 70 mph produced zero visibilities in that area. The snow snarled rush-hour traffic in Reno, delaed flights in and out of Reno Cannon International Airport and was blamed for sending about 20 cars skidding off a highway between Reno and Carson City. In California, a snow slide blocked portions a highway near Lake Tahoe, and avalanche crews closed some roads. In Utah, dense fog contributed to accidents involving more than a dozen vehicles on a freeway in Salt Lake Valley. Winter storm warnings were in effect for Nevada and for Utah, where up to 2 feet of snow was expected. Snow also fell in Wyoming, Montana and North Dakota. Snow advisories were posted in Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho, Arizona, Southern California's Owens Valley and North Dakota. Today's forecast called for snow showers from southern New England to southern New York state, much of Pennsylvania, Maryland, northern Virginia, and northern West Virginia and in eastern Upper Michigan; freezing rain from Lower Michigan to northern Ohio, with rain from the rest of the upper Ohio Valley to Virginia andNorth Carolina; snow from much of the northern Plains to the northern Rockies; and rain along the southern and central Pacific Coast. High temperatures were predicted in the teens in northern New England and northeast New York, North Dakota and Montana; 20s and 30s from the rest of New England to New Jersey, the northern half of the Appalachians, the Great Lakes, the upper Mississippi Valley, South Dakota, Nebraska, the Rockies, Nevada and parts of the central Pacific Coast; 80s in southern Texas; 70s in much of the rest of Texas, the central Gulf Coast and Florida; and 50s and 60s in the rest of the nation. Temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. EST ranged from 15 degrees below zero at St. Johnsbury, Vt., to 72 degrees at Key West, Fla. Other reports: _East: Atlanta 45 partly cloudy; Boston 13 fair; Buffalo 22 cloudy; Charleston, S.C. 48 partly cloudy; Cincinnati 41 cloudy; Cleveland 36 rain; Detroit 32 snow; Miami 64 fair; Philadelphia 25 cloudy; Pittsburgh 35 rain; Portland, Maine 6 fair. _Central: Bismarck 14 snow; Chicago 36 foggy; Dallas-Fort Worth 56 fair; Denver 36 fair; Des Moines 34 drizzle; Indianapolis 36 drizzle; Kansas City 38 foggy; Minneapolis-St. Paul 21 cloudy; Nashville 46 partly cloudy; New Orleans 67 fair; St. Louis 43 foggy. _West: Albuquerque 30 fair; Anchorage 10 fair; Las Vegas 50 windy; Los Angeles 52 windy; Phoenix 51 fair; Salt Lake City 39 showers; San Diego 57 cloudy; San Francisco 44 windy; Seattle 35 rain. _Canada: Montreal 5 fair; Toronto 23 windy.
<relevant> National Guardsmen were called out in Illinois and Kentucky as cleanup began Sunday in three states struck by tornadoes that injured more than 50 people and damaged or destroyed scores of homes and businesses. Illinois Gov. James R. Thompson toured Allendale and said he planned to declare the town a state disaster area on Monday. He also sent about 100 National Guardmen to prevent looting and help clean up the town, where more than a third of the homes and commercial buildings were destroyed in the Saturday evening storm. ``It's a mess. It's awful,'' Thompson said. ``It looks like this place has been bombed,'' said Jack Loeffler, mayor of the community in southeastern Illinois. In Indiana, three people were injured in one county, and another county estimated damage at half a million dollars. In south-central Kentucky, a twister caused at least $10 million in damage to businesses and homes in and around Franklin. Tornadoes in wintertime are unusual but not unheard of, according to officials at the National Weather Service. A tornado Dec. 24 killed one person, injured 15 and destroyed 20 buildings in two Nashville, Tenn., suburbs. In Allendale, about 130 miles east of St. Louis near the Indiana border, a tornado Saturday evening cut through a 10-block area that makes up about half the town of 600, leveling buildings and uprooting dozens of trees. Loeffler said 53 homes and nine businesses were destroyed. An additional 28 homes were severely damaged and 30 sustained some damage. The post office, fire station, city hall and a school were all destroyed, he said. ``The east half of the town's gone,'' said Marvin Jones, an ambulance driver. ``Most of the streets are blocked by wires and trees and debris. ... Belongings are scattered everywhere.'' ``It's a mess is all you you can say,'' said a resident, Linda Griesemer. Six to eight people were trapped in the rubble but were rescued Saturday evening and brought to hospitals, Loeffler said. ``We feel very fortunate. To the best of our knowledge, there have been no fatalities,'' the mayor said. About 45 people from in and around Allendale, including at least six children, were treated at Wabash General Hospital in Mount Carmel, said spokeswoman Elaine Shaw. Four were treated at Lawrence County Memorial Hospital in Lawrenceville. Twenty-seven patients remained hospitalized Sunday at Wabash and seven at other hospitals, Ms. Shaw said. She said some were in critical condition, but did not know how many. In Indiana, the same storm system spawned a twister that injured three people and damaged or destroyed 30 homes and about 25 to 30 farm buildings in the St. Thomas area southeast of Vincennes in southwestern Indiana. The injured were treated at a hospital and released. The twister came within a mile of a highs school, where 2,500 people were watching a basketball game when the storm knocked the power out. Later, near Forest Hill in central Indiana, the storm damaged several houses and farm buildings in a sparsely populated area, causing an estimated $500,000 damage, said Sheriff's Deputy Jim Baylis. No injuries were reported. In south-central Kentucky, a tornado struck near midnight in outlying areas of Franklin, causing an estimated $10 million to $12 million in damage to businesses and homes, Simpson County Judge-Executive Ken Harper said Sunday. ``Miraculously, no one was injured,'' Harper said after touring the stricken areas in the community of 7,700. The roof was blown off an ambulance garage at the Franklin-Simpson Memorial Hospital. Damage also was reported to 25 homes and to 15 businesses in and near Franklin. Gov. Wallace Wilkinson authorized sending Kentucky National Guard troops to help prevent looting and keep traffic flowing, said David Adkinson, operations manager for Kentucky Disaster and Emergency Services. About 20 military police officers from the guard's Louisville unit were being sent to Franklin, he said. Minutes before the twister tore through Allendale, tornadoes hit nearby Mill Shoals and Albion, officials said. In Mill Shoals, two or three mobile homes were overturned and a couple of homes and several farm buildings were damaged, said state police Sgt. John Muensterman. In Albion, five buildings were damaged, said Mayor Earl Bailey. People whose homes were destroyed planned to stay with friends or relatives in town, and about a dozen were taken to a shelter in nearby St. Francisville, said Wabash County Sheriff Randy Grounds.
<relevant> Snow fell across the West and the Midwest today after two people died in an Oregon storm that triggered road-closing mudslides and floods. A rare January tornado in Utah damaged houses. Snow showers fell in upper Michigan, Minnesota, the Dakotas, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Idaho and eastern Washington state. Rain and thunderstorms fell from Louisiana to central Mississippi Snow advisories were posted for Utah's mountains, North Dakota and northwest Minnesota. Advisories for blowing and drifting snow were issued in northwest and central Colorado and south-central Wyoming. In Oregon, the bodies of two cross-country skiers were found Tuesday at the base of Mount Bachelor, where 2 feet of snow had fallen since late the previous day. The skiers apparently became disoriented in a ``whiteout,'' said Deschutes County Sheriff's Sgt. Terry Silbaugh. At Crater Lake National Park, 1{ feet of snow fell by Tuesday, raising the snow level to 113 inches, downing trees and blocking roads. ``Eighteen (inches of snow) at a whack, that really gets everybody hustling,'' said Park Superintendent Robert Benton. The snow closed Interstate 5 for four hours near the Oregon-California border. A mudslide blocked one rural Oregon road and flooding closed another. The brief but violent tornado Tuesday in the Salt Lake City suburb of Sandy damaged at least 10 homes and overturned a camper, authorities said. There were no injuries. The twister was the first reported in Utah in January, said William Adler of the National Weather Service. In California, winds gusted to more than 40 mph today in Sandberg and to nearly 30 mph in Lancaster. Today's forecast called for snow from the eastern Dakotas to Minnesota, Wisconsin and northern Iowa, with snow changing to rain showers in the rest of Iowa, Illinois, eastern Indiana, Tennessee, the lower Mississippi Valley, much of Texas' Gulf Coast, Alabama, northern Georgia and the Florida Panhandle; and snow showers from Colorado to southern Utah and the central Arizona mountains. High temperatures were predicted in the single digits and the teens from the upper Missouri Valley to much of the northern Plains, northern and western Minnesota, upper Michigan, northeast New York state and northern New England; the 20s and 30s from the rest of New England to New Jersey, the northern Appalachians, the rest of the Great Lakes, southeast Minnesota, southwest Missouri, the central Plains and the Rockies; the 60s from the South Carolina coast to northern Florida, the central Gulf Coast, central and southern Texas, southern Arizona and Southern California; the 70s and 80s on the Florida peninsula; and in the 40s and 50s in the rest of the nation. Temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. EST ranged from 25 degrees below zero at Warroad, Minn., to 74 degrees at Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Other reports: _East: Atlanta 43 foggy; Boston 32 cloudy; Buffalo 30 windy; Charleston, S.C. 48 foggy; Cincinnati 29 fair; Cleveland 24 fair; Detroit 24 fair; Miami 70 fair; New York 36 partly cloudy; Philadelphia 37 cloudy; Pittsburgh 31 fair; Portland, Maine 25 partly cloudy; Washington 34 foggy. _Central: Bismarck 04 snow; Chicago 31 fair; Dallas-Fort Worth 54 windy; Denver 30 fair; Des Moines 25 fair; Kansas City 37 fair; Minneapolis-St. Paul 9 cloudy; Nashville 35 foggy; New Orleans 66 foggy; St. Louis 35 fair. _West: Albuquerque 34 fair; Anchorage 29 cloudy; Las Vegas 47 windy; Los Angeles 52 fair; Phoenix 47 fair; Salt Lake City 22 partly cloudy; San Diego 55 cloudy; San Francisco 49 fair; Seattle 35 fair. _Canada: Montreal 32 windy; Toronto 25 windy.
<relevant> Floods fed by a week of heavy rain swept through villages, washed away homes, and left 13 people dead and four missing, news reports said Thursday. Seven people died when their boat sank in a flood-swollen river in Riau province, the newspaper Suara Pembaruan reported. Heavy rain flooded 105 villages in the region about 600 miles northwest of Jakarta, the paper said, quoting local official Asparaini Rasyad. The paper did not say which day the deaths occurred. Another flood killed six people, including a 2-year-old girl, in nearby West Sumatra province, the official Antara news agency reported. It said four people still were missing after that flood Tuesday. The flood washed away four houses, the agency said.
<relevant> Schools were ordered closed for the rest of the week in North Dakota amid warnings that temperatures would go to 40 below, as the Alaska-born cold blast pushed south and east, stretching the big chill from the Pacific to Oklahoma. Closed roads and icy highways took their toll as at least one motorist was killed in a 17-vehicle pileup in Idaho, a tour bus crashed on an icy stretch of Sierra Nevada interstate and 100-car string of accidents occurred near Seattle. ``February is going to be quite different from January,'' said Bob Snider, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Ann Arbor, Mich. Midwesterners who chuckled at the weather in Alaska over the weekend while polishing their golf clubs got their comeuppance as winter set in with a vengeance. The normally rainy Pacific Northwest got a rare snowfall, and Easterners counted the waning hours of springlike weather as the cold front moved their way. Bellingham, Wash., reported gusts over 100 mph early Wednesday and 60 mph by midday, knocking out power to as many as 15,000 customers. Snow caved in the roof of Everett's soccer center, causing $250,000 damage, officials said. At least 20 people were injured when a tour bus carrying about two dozen passengers overturned on icy, wind-swept Interstate 80 in the Sierra Nevada, and six people were hospitalized, the California Highway Patrol reported. The big winter storm, with 60 mph gusts, knocked out electrical power to a ``big chunk'' of Salt Lake City on Wednesday night, with blackouts extending 40 miles to Ogden, said Utah Power &amp; Light Co. spokesman Dave Eskelsen. Eskelsen said engineers believed the outage was the result of ``dirty rain'' coating insulators on power poles and blowing fuses, and some crews had reports of burning power poles. In northern Minnesota, authorities blamed a night of minus 20-degree temperatures for the hypothermia death of a 31-year-old woman whose frozen body was found on a sidewalk in Coleraine. As the cold pushed into the country Wednesday, temperatures fell 18 degrees in one hour at Ardmore, Okla., the National Weather Service said. Russell, Kan., which shared the nation's high of 84 degrees Tuesday afternoon, had readings in the lower teens a day later and wind chills in the 30-below-zero range. With North Dakota's wind chills expected to dip as low as 80 degrees below over the next several days, Gov. George Sinner ordered all schools to close until Monday. ``The weather forecast for the next two days calls for bitter cold to the extent that our young people are at risk, particularly those being transported to school,'' Sinner said. A wind-chill reading of 90 below was recorded Wednesday morning at Tioga, in northwestern North Dakota. The wind chill reading at mid-afternoon was 67 below at Williston. In Idaho, where high winds and chill temperatures forced the closing of many roads, crews worked to clear wreckage from a pileup on Interstate 84. Eight semi trucks and nine other vehicles were involved, and at least one person was killed, said Lt. David Neal of the Idaho State Police in Twin Falls. Not counting Alaska, Cut Bank, Mont., was the nation's icebox at midday Wednesday, with a reading of 31 below zero, and temperatures in the state were forecast to dip below 40 below by Thursday morning. Electric power in Great Falls, a city of 57,000, and several smaller towns in north-central Montana was knocked out for nearly an hour Wednesday morning when the Black Eagle hydroelectric dam broke down. ``We don't know what caused it,'' said Cort Freeman, Montana Power Co. spokesman. ``There's a lot of things that can happen in weather like this.'' In Alaska, where it all began as the thermometer went as low as 60 below over the weekend, temperatures moderated Wednesday over much of the state except for the area near the Canadian border. While Anchorage was reporting just 11 degrees below zero and no wind, Northway on the Alaska Highway near the Yukon had a 7 a.m. reading of 59 below. Northway posted an extreme of another sort when the barometric pressure reached 31.85 inches late Tuesday, a record high-pressure reading for the North American continent. The reading there eased off Wednesday morning but was still a high 31.31 inches. It was the effects of the high pressure system on the jet stream that created the unusual weather pattern. The barometric pressure was so high that the Federal Aviation Adminitration early Wednesday issued an order restricting instrument and night flights over Alaska, saying that altimeters that use barometric pressure might not calculate a plane's altitude accurately at that high pressure. The snowfall at Seattle was enough to shut all runways at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport for nearly an hour Wednesday morning. The snowfall at the airport, 2 inches and counting at midmorning, plus temperatures in the teens made it the worst wintry weather in Seattle in more than three years. In the Plains, agriculture experts said the cold snap could reduce the evaporation from farm fields, already dry from last summer's drought and the dry winter. But that was the only good news for farmers in the forecast. Fruit growers worried that trees had begun to bud in the warmth and would now be in danger; the thirsty winter wheat crop in the southern Plains faced new stresses without the blanket of snow that usually keeps it safe during the winter; and ranchers across the Plains worked Wednesday to shelter cattle from the sudden cold. ``Now we've got something that's unbelieveable _ record highs, and suddenly within one day we go to cold temperatures,'' said Steve Baenziger of the University of Nebraska-Lincoln agronomy department. But in the East, record highs continued to topple Wednesday. In Buffalo, N.Y., normally known for its wintry weather, the record high for the date of 53, set just last year, was broken at 3 a.m. with a reading of 56 degrees. There was no snow on the ground, and Lake Erie was not frozen. It was 66 in Boston; 67 in New York City; 67 in Newark; 59 in Columbus, Ohio; and 70 in Roanoke, Va., all records for the date. As winter swept toward the Great Lakes region, ski operators said it couldn't come soon enough. ``The crowds just don't see snow, and it stops them from coming out,'' said Sherry Gerych, ticket office manager at Mount Brighton Ski Area in Michigan. ``As soon as it hits, we'll get ourselves fixed up again.''
<irrelevant> New Year's Day brought an unexpected snowstorm to Maryland and Delaware, surprising even the National Weather Service, which had anticipated just a combination of sleet and freezing rain. Dense fog overnight in portions of California and the central United States lingered Sunday afternoon in parts of Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, Illinois and Indiana. Rain and snow fell across the middle Atlantic Coast region Sunday with heavy snow in some of the higher elevations. And light snow extended from Upper Michigan to Nebraska and the Dakotas. Heavier snow was expected in parts of Maryland, Delaware and West Virginia. Baltimore had nearly 3 inches by afternoon and Sault Ste Marie, Mich., and Washington, D.C., each received an inch of snow during the six hour period ending at 1 p.m. EST. Dry weather prevailed across most of the rest of the nation with strong and gusty winds over parts of Southern California. Temperatures were still below freezing early Sunday afternoon from the northern high Plains through the upper Mississippi Valley to Upper Michigan and northern Lower Michigan. Temperatures hovered around the freezing mark through the day in much of Maryland, with the new snow turning to slush in many areas. Readings were in the single digits or below zero Sunday afternoon from eastern Montana through the Dakotas, into Minnesota and across much of the northern Atlantic Coast region. Temperatures were in the teens or single digits in northern New England. Temperatures were generally above 60 degrees from south central Texas to the southern Atlantic Coast, with readings in the 70s across Florida, southern Georgia, South Carolina and into the lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas. Temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. EST ranged from 8 degrees below zero at Thief River Falls, Minn., to 83 degrees at Cocoa Beach, Fla. The nation's low Sunday morning was 22 degrees below zero at Gunnison, Colo. The forecast for Monday called for snow from the Great Lakes region to northern New England. Rainshowers were expected across the Pacific Northwest, with freezing rain in some of the higher elevations. Rainshowers were also expected across much of Arizona and Southern California and from Texas to the Tennessee Valley. Dense fog was predicted for the Great Basin. It was expected to be fair across the rest of the nation, with windy conditions along the eastern slopes of the Rockies in Montana and Wyoming. Temperatures were expected to stay below freezing all day from the northern and central Rockies to northern New England and in the central Plateau. Highs were expected in the teens or single digits from eastern North and South Dakota to Upper Michigan and in northern Maine, in the 50s and 60s from the southern and central coast of California through much of Texas to the southern and middle Atlantic Coast. Readings were expected to reach the 70s from south central Texas to Florida and southern Georgia.
<irrelevant> The Christmas Day eruption of the snow-capped Lonquimay volcano in southern Chile is gaining in force and seismologists say they expect it to continue for at least another two months. Authorities have issued masks to residents who are remaining in the area to protect them from a thick cloud of ash spewed by the volcano over a sparsely populated area of about 12 square miles. And scientists estimate that 525 million cubic feet of lava have oozed out of the 8,400-foot volcano, toward an uninhabited valley, since the eruption began. Lonquimay, a peak in the Andes foothills about 400 miles south of Santiago, had been dormant for a century when it erupted on Christmas Day. Authorities say the eruption poses no danger for two nearby villages, Lolco and Malacahuello. Residents of both towns quickly evacuated after the eruption, and some later returned home. But many remain lodged at schools and municipal buildings in Curacautin, a city 50 miles away. Authorities on Saturday issued masks to the few residents who had returned to their homes. Researchers, soldiers and police officers also in the area were also wearing the white masks. On Sunday, the volcano continued to spew smoke and lava through a 300-foot-wide crater. The volcano initially showed three separate smaller fissures, but a series of explosions joined them into a single crater, authorities said. Seismologists from the University of La Frontera, in Temuco, the largest city in the region, said a 1,200-foot-wide, 30-foot-high mass of lava is slowly slipping down the volcano. They said the route followed by the lava is the same as the one in the Lonquimay's previous eruption, in 1889, and poses no danger for the population. Livestock in the area were removed to safer zones, police said.
<irrelevant> Snow and freezing drizzle fell across the Great Lakes region on Tuesday, causing slippery road conditions, while temperatures in the upper Mississippi Valley dipped to 15 below to 30 below zero with the wind chill factor. Snow accumulated over much of Wisconsin and Minnesota and in northern Indiana and northwest Ohio, falling at the rate of 2 inches an hour at Alpena, Mich., on Tuesday afternoon. Freezing rain caused several multiple car accidents in the Indianapolis area. Marquette and Escanaba, Mich., measured 4 inches of snow, while Houghton Lake, Mich., received 3 inches. Snow advisories were posted in much of northern and central Ohio, western Pennsylvania and the West Virginia Panhandle. A winter storm watch was posted for the mid-Atlantic Coast from Long Island to Delaware in preparation for the approaching low-pressure system. Snowshowers lingered Tuesday afternoon over southern Minnesota and southern Wisconsin, with wind gusts of up to 45 mph blowing snow across the upper Mississippi Valley and upper Great Lakes. Scattered rain was reported from Alabama into the Carolinas, and light rain fell along the northern Pacific Coast. Dense fog settled into the central California valleys Tuesday morning. Winds continued to be strong and gusty on the east side of the northern Rockies. Wind gusts reached 74 mph at Livingston, Mont., and 49 mph at Cody Wyo. Mobile, Ala., reached 77 degrees Tuesday, setting a record temperature for the date. The old record was 76 degrees in 1952. The low in the nation this morning was 13 degrees below zero at Gunnison Colo. Temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. EST ranged from 2 degrees below zero at Detroit Lakes, Minn., to 85 degrees at Harlingen and Kingsville, Texas. For Wednesday, the National Weather Service forecast widespread rain from the Pacific northwest into the northern Plateau and northern California. Rain and a few thunderstorms will develop across the southern Plateau region with wet snow spreading across parts of northern Arizona. Winds will be gusty at times from the central Appalachians to the mid Atlantic Coast and southern New England. High temperatures will rise into the 40s or 50s across much of the nation. Highs will be in the single digits and teens from the northern Great Lakes into New England, in the 20s and 30s from the northern Plains and upper Mississippi Valley to the lower Great Lakes, the lower Ohio Valley, the central Appalachians and to the mid Atlantic Coast. Highs will be in the 30s across the central intermountain region. Highs will be in the 60s along the southern California coast and from the Rio Grande Valley of Texas into western Oklahoma, southeast Colorado, across Texas and southern Louisiana and to central Florida. Highs will be in the 70s across the southern parts of Texas and southern Florida.
<irrelevant> Winds gusting to 60 mph today blew down trees, caused power outages and triggered gale warnings from Maine to South Carolina as snow fell over the Appalachian Mountains and the eastern Great Lakes. The fast-moving snowstorm Tuesday night left about 5 inches of snow in Chadron and Strongsville, Ohio, 4 inches in Pittsburgh and Cleveland and an inch in Washington, Baltimore and Philadelphia The storm was tapering off along the East Coast, but snow advisories remained in effect in New York, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland, as well as in West Virginia and Indiana. A heavy snow warning was posted in Ohio. Scattered rain showers and a few thunderstorms fell over Arizona and Southern California, and the Pacific Northwest got some rain showers. Dense fog was reported in Idaho, Utah and central California. Skies were clear from Florida to the Gulf Coast states, the central Plains and the upper Mississppi Valley and in most of the Northwest. The highest winds on the East Coast were reported in North Carolina, where 60 mph gusts were recorded in Jacksonville. Trees were blown down and power outages were reported across North Carolina and portions of Georgia. Storm warnings were up for waters off the North Carolina coast. In Vermont, strong winds and subzero temperatures were expected to produce wind chill factors of 30 to 40 degrees below zero. The nation's high Tuesday was 88 degrees at Kingsville and McAllen, Texas. Today's forecast called for snow showers over the eastern Great Lakes and central Appalachians; showers and thunderstorms from southwest Texas to parts of New Mexico, southern Arizona and Southern California; scattered rain and snow showers over northern Arizona and southern Utah; and rain showers over the Pacific Northwest. High temperatures were expected to be near zero and in the single digits in far northern New England and northeast New York; the teens and 20s across the rest of New England, northern portions of the mid-Atlantic Coast states, the central Appalachians, the upper Ohio Valley, the Great Lakes and Minnesota; the 50s and 60s in the Gulf Coast states, the central and southern Plains and the Southwest; and 70s in Texas and southern Florida. Temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. EST ranged from 14 degrees below zero at International Falls, Minn., to 73 degrees at St. Petersburg, Fla. Other reports: _East: Atlanta 40 fair; Boston 21 windy; Buffalo 11 snow; Charleston, S.C. 49 windy; Cincinnati 26 fair; Cleveland 25 snow; Detroit 20 cloudy; Miami 67 fair; New York 26 snow; Philadelphia 29 snow; Pittsburgh 24 snow; Portland, Maine 11 fair; Washington 31 snow. _Central: Bismarck 20 fair; Chicago 30 fair; Dallas-Fort Worth 44 partly cloudy; Denver 31 fair; Des Moines 20 partly cloudy; Indianapolis 22 fair; Kansas City 26 fair; Minneapolis-St. Paul fair; Nashville 34 fair; New Orleans 55 fair; St. Louis 31 fair. _West: Albuquerque 37 cloudy; Anchorage foggy; Las Vegas 49 showery; Los Angeles 55 partly cloudy; Phoenix 58 partly cloudy; Salt Lake City 21 foggy; San Diego 54 cloudy; San Francisco 42 fair; Seattle 45 cloudy. _Canada: Montreal fair; Toronto fair.
<irrelevant> An earthquake of the type that killed tens of thousands last month in Soviet Armenia would cause many fewer deaths in a typical American city because of differences in construction standards, a U.S. engineer said Wednesday. Loring Wyllie, a San Francisco structural engineer and co-leader of an American team of experts that surveyed the Soviet earthquake site, said most of the buildings that collapsed were poorly constructed, built from a common design and of concrete that collapsed ``like a stack of cards.'' ``We would have a lot less loss of life due to the diversity of our construction,'' Wyllie said at a news conference. He said the Soviet buildings were constructed from blueprints developed in Moscow for use throughout the Soviet Union. Most of the destroyed buildings had been were built in recent years using prefabricated concrete parts ``not at all of the quality you would find here in the United States,'' he said. ``If that kind of construction happened on a job here in the United Stastes, the inspector would have rejected it and the contractor would have to redo it,'' said Wyllie. He said concrete used in the Soviet construction was ``frequently filled with rock pockets'' that weakened the material, and that concrete beams were often joined together in a haphazard fashion. As a result, when the earthquake struck, buildings up to 10 stories high collapsed very quickly, he said. Fred Krimgold, an expert from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and a member of an American search and resuce team that arrived in Armenia four days after the earthquake, said the building design was a prime factor in the high number of deaths. ``The floor system of these buildings is made up of (concrete) planks,'' he said. ``When these floors collapsed, we got very tight, compact rubble'' with few voids where people might have survived. ``As a result, this was one of the most deadly earthquakes we've seen,'' said Krimgold. ``Typically, the ratio of injury to fatality is on the order of three or four to one. In this earthquake, it was the reverse.'' Krimgold said that though the official death toll of the earthquake has been placed at about 24,000, he believes the exact number will never be well-documented. Some Soviet officials, he said, estimated that there were more than 100,000 unregistered people living in the area and that thousands of bodies buried in the rubble will never be recovered. The rubble of many buildings that were thought to contain people, said Krimgold, now are simply being bulldozed level with no effort to recover bodies. ``There have been 24,000 bodies recovered,'' he said. ``But don't mistake the number of bodies found with the actual number of dead. ... Fifty to sixty thousand, probably 60, is a reasonable estimate.'' Krimgold, who has participated in rescue efforts following earthquakes in Mexico and Central America, said more people survived in those disasters because the buildings collapsed in large pieces. These large pieces left hollows or pockets within the rubble where trapped people could survive until they were rescued. Delays in reaching trapped Soviet victims also cost many lives, he said. ``We uncovered a number of people who unfortunately had died only recently before we got to them. They were not dead at the time of the collapse,'' said Krimgold. ``Many people died of exposure trapped in the buildings. The nighttime temperature was below freezing.'' The Armenian earthquake struck around 11:40 a.m. on Dec. 7. The main shock measured 6.8 on the Richter scale, which is considered a strong quake. It was followed a few minutes later by an after-shock that measured 5.8. About 80 percent of buildings in Leninakan, a town of 250,000, were leveled, and a number of smaller towns nearby were destroyed. John Filson, a U.S. Geological Survey expert and a co-leader of the American team, said after-shocks continue in the area with one measuring 5.0 occurring as recently as Saturday. Filson and Wyllie headed an 18-member team of specialists organized by the USGS, the National Academy of Sciences and the National Science Foundation at the request of Soviet authorities. The group spent two weeks in the Armenian earthquake area gathering scientific and engineering information in collaboration with Soviet experts. Filson said the information will be analyzed and shared internationally in an effort to better understand earthquakes and how to construct safer buildings in areas of seismic activity.
</top>
<top>
<num> 60
<title> Merit-Pay vs. Seniority
<relevant> Employees in Du Pont Co.'s fibers department will receive bonuses equal to 3 percent of their 1988 salaries next week in the first fruit of an experimental pay plan, an executive said Friday. When the plan takes full effect next year, a portion of employees' pay raises will be tied to the department's profitability. The Wilmington, Del.-based chemical giant has touted the plan as a way to increase profitability by giving employees a stake in the business. The 20,000-employee fibers department makes products such as nylon, Dacron, Lycra, Orlon, Kevlar and Antron. Next week's bonuses are considered an incentive because the program is not fully in operation and no portion of employees' salaries was actually at risk. Next year if the department performs poorly they could lose the entire amount they put at risk. ``We announced to employees in early February that our performance in 1988 was such that we would have a 3 percent payout. Checks will be distributed Monday and Tuesday,'' said Robert McNutt, who led the team that developed the plan. If the department meets 80 percent of its 1989 earnings goal, employees will receive half of their pay that was at risk. If the goal is met, employees will receive all of the ``at risk'' money. Employees could receive three times the amount at risk if earnings goals are exceeded by 50 percent. For 1988, the department overshot its goal for after-tax operating income of $626 million by about 12.5 percent, resulting in the 3 percent payout, according to McNutt. The bonuses are ``an incentive for the people participating in the program. It's a way of saying thanks for the job that we did together as a team in 1988 and so it's a bonus as we move toward variable pay for 1989,'' McNutt said. It is expected to take three to five years to fully phase in the plan until the employee has a maximum amount of money at risk equal to 6 percent of what their pay would have been if they had received all scheduled raises. Employees who do not receive a raise this year will not have pay at risk and thus will not be eligible for bonuses. During the phase-in period, each employee will always receive at least 1 percent of any raise, regardless of the fibers business performance. McNutt noted, however, that late last year about 10,000 employees voluntarily put 2 percent of salary ``at risk'' for this year. The plan was mandatory for all department employees except unionized workers. About 2,000 production workers at the Spruance plant in Richmond, Va., voted against the plan, McNutt said, while the others voted to be in. The department has about 6,000 to 7,000 union workers at plants in Delaware, Tennessee and Virginia. Du Pont said if the plan works, it could become a model for the whole company.
<relevant> While most of America enjoys a respite from presidential campaigning, the country's teachers are engaged in one of the hottest leadership contests in the history of the National Education Association. The candidates are a personable vice president with years of inner-circle experience and a passionate champion of underdogs prone to taking ``reasonable risks.'' Come July, one of them will be president of the 1.9-million-member union, the nation's largest. With hats, buttons, banners and floor demonstrations, the scene at the Washington Convention Center July 2-5 promises in many ways to resemble last summer's political conventions. But there will be at least a couple of major differences. At 8,000 delegates, the NEA convention will be bigger than the Democratic and GOP parleys combined. And instead of serving as a forum to anoint a pre-selected candidate, this gathering will be marked by ferocious last-minute campaigning and delegate-hunting by the two men who hope to succeed Mary Futrell. Observers agree Futrell, highly popular with teachers and sought after by the media, will be a tough act to follow. During her unprecedented six-year tenure, she has raised both the union's profile and its credibility on education issues. Futrell also helped the NEA weather withering attacks by former Education Secretary William Bennett and shed its obstructionist image during a period of increasing dissatisfaction with public schools and calls for changes in teaching, curriculum and school management. Teachers who don't want to rock the boat are lining up for Keith Geiger, a conscientious team player during his last six years as NEA vice president. Those seeking a more impassioned leadership style are leaning toward John Wilson, an executive committee member and special education teacher from Raleigh, N.C. Geiger points with pride to his negotiating ability and political activism, honed in long years of collective bargaining and Democratic politics in Michigan. Wilson touts his current status as a part-time classroom teacher and an ``action-oriented leadership style'' he says is lacking in Geiger. ``We're both establishment candidates, but one of us is an activist. The question is, do you want an active or a passive president,'' asserts Wilson. Wilson's campaign slogan, ``a better leader for tomorrow because he teaches today,'' cuts to the heart of his argument that Geiger is too much the bureaucrat, too long gone from the classroom. ``That's a phony issue. Mary Futrell has been out of the classroom for nine years and I don't think anybody is saying she's not a good president,'' Geiger shoots back. He depicts Wilson as a hardliner who would lead the NEA back into its obstructionist past. ``The difference is whether we're going to hold onto our longstanding, old-time traditional unionist hat _ that we have to oppose everything that comes down the line unless we promote it, or we're going to work for the kinds of education reform that will help move the organization along,'' Geiger said Ed Foglia, a Wilson partisan and president of the California Education Association, called Wilson ``a reasonable risk-taker. Keith is a very personable individual, but he is not about to take on the hard fight that John Wilson would. He is much more of a compromiser.'' Geiger and his supporters see that as an advantage. ``It's very easy to get on the stump when you haven't had the opportunity to work with power brokers and a whole set of people with vastly different ideas. You have to be a negotiator,'' said Kathy Bell, president of the NEA affiliate in Florida. Nowhere are the candidates' differences more apparent than the way their campaign literature treats the controversial, top-priority issue of teacher pay. Wilson says the union should ``expose the misuse of evaluation systems for teacher pay'' and ``stand firm in our opposition to merit pay and career ladder programs.'' Geiger says the NEA should work for dramatic pay raises in a few key states that would serve as models for other states, and try to get more federal money for education. Though he opposes merit pay, it is never mentioned in his statement. To Geiger, Wilson's adamance recalls the union's inflexible past. To Wilson, Geiger's avoidance of issues smacks of selling out to public opinion. ``I don't really believe in a go-along to get-along attitude,'' Wilson says. ``I will not compromise the needs of our members for a good editorial.''
<relevant> She held her own against a bombastic education secretary and turned her huge union into a force for school improvement, challenges almost equal to her growing up poor and black in the segregated South. Now the 2-million-member National Education Association must choose a successor to Mary Hatwood Futrell, the voice of the teachers union for six years and, some say, the best spokesman it ever had. ``The NEA should light a candle to Mary. The organization owes her a great deal,'' says Ernest Boyer, president of the Princeton-based Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Futrell is credited with shifting the NEA's focus from self-protection to a more professional concern for better education. Under her leadership, union delegates approved a Carnegie plan for a national board to set standards and certify teachers. The union started spending its own money on curriculum innovations and a foundation for education improvement that makes grants for dropout and illiteracy prevention programs. It also cooperated with administrators and principals on a joint guide to teacher evaluation. NEA is still a union, committed to collective bargaining and opposed in principle to merit pay plans supported by many outside the teaching field. But its recent activities have gone a long way toward eroding the obstructionist image that made it such an easy target in the early 1980s. Some conservative educators believe Futrell has made only marginal progress. ``Her organization under her leadership has moved from the Middle Ages to the mid-18th century, and that's quite a lot to accomplish in six years. On the other hand, that still leaves them in the mid-18th century,'' says Chester Finn, who was an assistant education secretary in the Reagan administration. Futrell, while admitting she would have liked to move faster on some issues such as child care and school restructuring, defends the NEA's pace. ``We would be the first to admit that our efforts are just the beginning,'' she said. ``What's important is that we're taking the steps. We've said we know we must change and let's try it incrementally at first.'' Nevertheless, when she presides over her final convention next weekend, Futrell says she will tell the 8,000-odd delegates that ``you have to do more. You have to be bold and you have to take more risks. What we've done is good, but it's not enough.'' The far-flung union has had a reputation, not entirely undeserved, for cumbersome bureaucracy and resistance to change. Former President Reagan and former Education Secretary William Bennett hammered at those flaws in repeated attacks on NEA, using it as a symbol of all that was wrong with American education. Bennett denounced the NEA as intransigent and said its repeated calls for more education spending revealed ``a cash-register mentality.'' Futrell gave as good as she got, pointing out that demands for higher Pentagon spending never inspired that type of rhetoric from the Reagan administration. But out in the field, she found teachers in despair. ``The depression was so heavy,'' she recalled in an interview. ``You'd go in and it was like you were there as a missionary to try to boost the morale of the school, month after month after month.'' The years under administration fire turned out to have some positive effects. There was a backlash of sympathy for teachers and a new unity within the NEA. There was also a key decision by Futrell about three years ago to take the offense, to move ahead with an NEA agenda rather than keep responding to attacks. Futrell says now that had she known what her first three years would be like, she would not have wanted the job. But, relying on the survival skills she learned as a child, she proved a match for both Reagan and Bennett. ``When you live with adversity ... you force yourself to stand up,'' she said. ``You force yourself to persevere. You force yourself to see positive things.'' Futrell was raised in Lynchburg, Va., by a mother who had dreamed of becoming a nurse but was forced by the deaths of her parents and later her husband to work as a maid and short-order cook. Futrell was not yet 5 when her father died. Her mother supported two daughters and two foster daughters on $15 a week, sometimes working 18 hours a day, but always found time to attend PTA meetings. She brought home books her employers had discarded, held weekly spelling bees at home and punished Mary when her grades were not satisfactory. As a little girl, Futrell wrote in an autobiographical essay, her clothes sometimes had more holes than fabric and she once had to go to school without shoes. At 8 she started helping her mother dust church pews and office desks. By 12 she worked full-time during the summer. When she graduated from her segregated high school, her teachers raised scholarship money through local churches to enable her to go to college. She honored them by becoming a teacher herself, a business teacher in Alexandria, Va. Moving from state chapter president to national secretary-treasurer to NEA president, Futrell emerged as a charismatic leader so respected by her members that a room will be set aside for tributes to her at the NEA convention next weekend. Her achievements win praise even from Albert Shanker, her counterpart at the rival American Federation of Teachers. He took her to lunch this month for the first time in six years, ``to tell her what a great job I think she's done,'' according to Shanker. ``The people before her were not willing to take the risks or do the hard work. When she did, she got results.'' Futrell says she'll stay active in international education when she steps down from her NEA post this summer. She also wants to spend more time with her family and may pursue a graduate degree. The men vying for her title are Keith Geiger, currently vice president of the NEA, and John Wilson, a member of the executive committee. The outcome is expected to hinge on last-minute campaigning at the convention. There are those who think it is impossible for NEA to be at once an aggressive union and a respected professional association. But Futrell says she has spent six years balancing those roles, ``forging a marriage that will last for a very long time without sacrificing the integrity of either.'' Chances are excellent that whether Geiger or Wilson is elected, her legacy will endure. It's all been part of her plan, one of the reasons she moved more slowly than she would have liked, taking the time to educate and persuade and convert her members to each new idea. ``I wanted to make sure that when I walk away on Aug. 31, that change is in place, that the changes we've made will have roots,'' says Futrell. ``If you agitate people and encourage them to be part of it, then they have ownership. And they will implement those changes when you're long gone.''
<relevant> Teachers must ``reject reaction'' and act as a constructive force in school reform, according to outgoing National Education Association President Mary Hatwood Futrell. The NEA was choosing a new president today to take over when Futrell steps down at the end of the summer after six years at the helm of the 2-million-member union. Running to succeed Futrell were union vice president Keith Geiger of Michigan and executive committee member John Wilson of North Carolina. ``I am still Mary the teacher,'' the departing NEA president told 8,400 delegates Sunday at the annual NEA Representative Assembly. ``Remember me as ... someone who has chalk dust on the sleeves of her soul.'' Don't rain on the parade of educational reform _ lead it, she urged in her final speech. ``We must embrace change and reject reaction,'' she said. ``We must continue to expand politically and professionally as we have over the last 20 years, especially the last five years ... We must push hard, we must take risks, we must never let up.'' As the nation's largest union and one of its most politically active, the NEA has considerable clout both in Washington and at the grassroots level. Of the two candidates, Geiger was generally considered more moderate and likely to continue on the course set by Futrell, while Wilson promised passionate leadership with no bows to public opinion. Geiger, in accepting his nomination Sunday, described himself as an experienced collective bargainer who would be ``tough but flexible'' as president. ``You deserve a president who will confront issues squarely, but will never confuse confrontation with results,'' Geiger told the delegates. ``Your next president must know when to stand firm and when to bend, how to recognize necessary and legitimate reform and how to recognize political posturing.'' Wilson vowed to teach politicians and corporate leaders that ``we deserve good pay for the work we do and we shouldn't have to jump through a lot of hoops to get it.'' He attacked merit pay as wrong and divisive and pledged to ``do everything in my power to defeat it.'' He also attacked ``educational bureaucrats who stand in our path'' to reform by piling on paperwork and cutting back budgets. Both candidates praised Futrell and echoed her theme of teacher empowerment. Geiger told the delegates that ``you must play the key roles in deciding how your schools are run,'' while Wilson said he ``will not rest until the classrooms of the future are shaped by those who work in them.'' In a speech interrupted more than 60 times by applause and standing ovations, Futrell spoke on broad issues ranging from gun control to the global economy to subjects specifically affecting children and education. She said the NEA must stand firm in its opposition to vouchers, tuition tax credits and half-baked suggestions from ``the elitists, the politically ambitious and the educationally inexperienced.'' But Futrell exhorted the union, once labeled ``the status quo incarnate'' by former Education Secretary William Bennett, to be a constructive force in school reform. Futrell said system-wide restructuring must be conceived and executed by educators and that NEA should take the lead. She also reiterated NEA calls for full funding of federal education, health and nutrition programs for disadvantaged children. She scolded President Bush for failing to accept an invitation to speak to the group, whose membership is about one-third Republican.
<relevant> National teaching credentials will be offered in 29 fields to qualifying educators, a national education group said today in a move aimed at boosting professionalism in the classroom. The guidelines released today are the first major step toward achieving ``high and rigorous standards for what teachers should know and be able to do,'' said James A. Kelly, president of the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. The certificates will be given to teachers who qualify through essays, interviews, performance and other means, the group said. ``No one has ever tried to do something like this in a profession this size with so many built-in constraints,'' Kelly said. The 63-member board, chaired by former North Carolina Gov. James Hunt, is scheduled to start awarding the voluntary certificates in 1993. The nation's 2.5 million teachers may apply for certification if they have a bachelor of arts degree and at least three years of experience. Teachers will be evaluated on their knowledge of their subject, their competence in teaching techniques and their understanding of child development, according to the guidelines released in Chicago. Copies also were made available in Washington. The national board, proposed three years ago by the Carnegie Forum on Education and the Economy, is made up of teachers, government officials, business leaders and representatives of higher education. Through the voluntary certificates, the board aims to increase teacher professionalism, upgrade children's learning environments and spur improvements in teacher training. The credential also is expected to make teaching a more attractive career option and give teachers a chance to move into new roles requiring particular expertise. Certified teachers may also command better salaries, but Kelly said that will depend on local authorities. ``The board has always said we want our certificates to be recognized,'' he said in an interview. ``But it's not the board's business to say how each school district and private school should recognize certified teachers.'' Kelly said the board will not limit the number of teachers it certifies and does not anticipate the credential being restricted to an elite group. But he noted that ``not everyone who tries will pass. This is not a matter of mailing a transcript to the state capitol and getting a license back by return mail.'' Evaluation methods may include multiple choice tests, essays, interviews, simulated lesson plans and parent conferences and observation of the teachers at work, the board report said. A typical evaluation could involve asking a music teacher to bring a videotape of an orchestra rehearsal or asking a teacher to come to an assessment center to defend his or her methods, Kelly said. The board plans to issue certificates in 29 fields, including early and middle childhood, music, art, foreign languages, physical education, special education, vocational fields, and subject areas such as math, science, social studies and English for different age groups. It is unclear whether the board will eventually offer more than one level of certification, a concept opposed by the National Education Association. The 2-million-member NEA and its 700,000-member rival, the American Federation of Teachers, each have seven seats on the national board. AFT President Albert Shanker, a longtime backer of national teacher certification, said the guidelines prove skeptics were wrong when they said the task was impossible. ``We can be proud that we have come so far,'' he said.
<irrelevant> Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist has strongly endorsed a proposal to raise federal judges' salaries by 51 percent to $135,000 a year. In his 1988 year-end report on the federal judiciary, Rehnquist threw his weight behind a presidential commission's recommendation of big pay raises for judges and about 2,000 other top federal officials. Besides calling for the pay raise for trial judges, who now make $89,500, the commission recommended boosting salaries of federal appeals court judges from $95,000 to $140,000, a 47 percent jump; of Supreme Court associate justices from $110,000 to $165,000, a 50 percent increase; and of the chief justice from $115,000 to $175,000, a 52 percent increase. The recommendations are pending before President Reagan, who can accept or modify the figures before sending his fiscal 1990 budget to Congress on Jan. 9. Under the law, whatever pay increases the president endorses will take effect 30 days later unless both the House and the Senate vote to set them aside. ``Over the past two decades, the purchasing power of federal judicial salaries has been seriously eroded by inflation,'' Rehnquist said. The buying power of an appeals court judge's salary has dropped 30 percent in the past 20 years, said the chief justice, adding, ``While the salary of the median household has increased approximately 200 percent to keep pace with inflation since 1969, the salaries of federal (trial) judges rose by little more than half that amount.'' Rehnquist cited a recent American Bar Foundation survey in which 30 percent of the federal judges who responded said they planned to resign before retirement unless ``a significant increase in compensation'' is provided. ``Dozens of federal judges have resigned from the bench during the past 15 years, far more than ever before, due in large part to financial reasons,'' Rehnquist said. ``And the problem appears to be growing worse.'' He said judicial salaries are directly linked to ``the quality of American justice.'' Comparing justice and medical care, Rehnquist said, ``We are interested in receiving the best medical care available. If the quality of medical treatment is poor, it is little consolation that the cost may be low.'' He added: ``The right to one's day in court is meaningless if the judge who hears the case lacks the talent, experience and temperament that will enable him to protect imperiled rights and to render a fair decision.''
<irrelevant> Toyota Motor Corp. officials heaved a collective sigh of relief Thursday after learning the company's new Lexus line of luxury cars could keep its name, at least for now. ``Whoa, that's good news,'' Jim Perkins, senior vice president of the Japanese company's Lexus division, said after being told of the ruling in a New York federal court. Mead Data General Inc. has sued Toyota claiming that the Lexus name diluted the business of its Lexis legal information retrieval service. A federal district judge issued a restraining order last week forbidding Toyota from using the Lexus name, but an appeals court delayed implementation of that order earlier this week. The ruling Thursday by the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals in New York extended the reprieve on a limited basis at least until Jan. 30, when the appellate court will hear arguments on the merits of the case by lawyers from both sides. The extension came just as Toyota was unveiling its Lexus line at the North American Auto Show, which runs through Jan. 15 in Detroit. Lexus also has a display running the same time at the Los Angeles Auto Show. Company officials had nervously wondered whether they would have to cover up the names of the cars at their swank exhibits. ``We could have changed it (the display) in four hours,'' said Perkins. Appellate Judge Emilia Kearse said Toyota may continue to use the Lexus name at the auto shows and at other expositions, but cannot advertise Lexus nationally until the matter is settled. Lawyers from both sides were happy with Thursday's decision. ``Essentially, they have given each side part of what it wanted,'' said Mead attorney Charles J. Farouki. Arthur D. Gray, who represents Toyota, said: ``We're pleased with the result.'' ``We're one step further,'' added Bob McCurry, executive vice president of Toyota Motor Sales USA Inc. ``I think it shows that we have a case there.'' Toyota and the Lexus division have dropped millions of dollars into the Lexus name since it was agreed upon in August 1987. The Lexus booth at the Detroit auto show features two four-door sedans, the LS400 and ES250, which vary in cost from $20,000 to $40,000 and are aimed at buyers ready for luxury cars but unwilling to pay more for European imports. The legal dispute with Mead has attracted heavy press attention to the Lexus exhibit, where reporters got a preview before the exposition opens to the public Saturday. ``Our most immediate job is to earn name recognition for Lexus,'' said Perkins. ``Unfortunately, we're doing it the hard way.''
<irrelevant> President Reagan said today he supports a 50 percent pay raise for members of Congress and other federal officials because ``we must not allow federal service to become the province only of the wealthy.'' In a letter to the House and Senate, Reagan said he endorsed the pay-raise recommendations of the Commission on Executive, Legislative and Judicial Salaries. He said ``fair compensation for those who bear the responsibility for effective functioning of our government is critical at this juncture of history.'' In advance of the president's decision, which was made public late Thursday by the White House, consumer activist Ralph Nader labeled it the ``greatest salary grab in government history.'' The raise will increase the pay for members of Congress and federal judges to $135,000 a year unless both houses of Congress reject it by Feb. 8. In his letter today, the president coupled his support for the pay hike with a plea that Congress at the same time bar outside income such as speaking fees, as the commission recommended last month. ``The current system undermines public faith in the integrity of senior federal officials, particularly in the legislative branch,'' Reagan wrote. ``Congress should move immediately to enact legislation that takes a comprehensive approach to the problems posed by honoraria, including payments for articles, speeches and appearances, and other forms of financial benefits.'' President-elect Bush, asked today about the pay raise, said he supports whatever Reagan decides, but may take another look at the issue when he becomes president. Asked by reporters if the nation could afford the big pay increase at a time when it is grappling with huge budget deficits, Bush said: ``Well, I don't know whether we can afford anything other than to get this deficit under control. ... I am vice president and I will be supportive of what the president decides. I've done that for seven and eleven-twelfths years and I don't plan to change now. So let's see what the president says and then when the ball is in my court and the buck is stopping on my desk, I may have something else to say about matters of this nature,'' Bush said. He spoke after the White House released Reagan's letter supporting the pay increase. Rep. Vic Fazio, D-Calif., said, ``I'm very pleased that the president has decided to make this decision. This is a pay raise for all the top-level federal officials ... but, of course, we (Congress) take all the heat.'' Nader said, however, ``Mr. Reagan has put an end to any further pretense that he wants his federal deficit reduced. He has thumbed his nose at the vast majority of the American people, Republican, independent and Democrat alike who are against the greatest salary grab in government history.'' Reagan could have modified the proposal made last month by the commission. Under the law, unless both the House and Senate vote to head off the pay increases, they will automatically take effect 30 days after the plan is submitted to Congress with the proposed federal budget on Monday. The commission recommended that members of Congress and federal district judges, who now make $89,500 a year, be paid $135,000. The House speaker's salary would go from $115,000 to $175,000, and that of majority and minority leaders from $99,500 to $155,000. Top executive-branch officials such as Cabinet members would get raises from their current $99,500 to $155,000. The commission also recommended that Congress raise the president's pay to about $350,000 from the current $200,000, where it has stood since 1969. However, such a hike would not take effect until 1993 because of a constitutional prohibition on raising a president's pay during his term. Fazio said he believes the Senate is likely to reject the raise, as it has in past years when the House allowed pay hikes to take effect. The lawmaker said he believed a ban on honoraria would be enacted if the raises were accepted. He said that would keep the overall benefit to lawmakers less than that for judges. On Thursday, the nonpartisan National Taxpayers Union delivered petitions to the White House bearing the names of 13,000 people who oppose the raise. Spokesman David Keating said after the White House announcement, ``I think Reagan's action is outrageous. Adopting fat pay raises for top officials will sabotage President-elect Bush's flexible spending freeze proposal ... Raising congressional pay by 50 percent is about as popular as trading arms with the ayatollah.'' A White House statement said that since 1969, ``salary levels for senior federal officials _ executives, legislators and judges _ have declined 35 percent in constant dollars while the compensation of workers in the private sector has kept pace with inflation.'' ``Federal trial judges are currently earning less than some junior lawyers in private practice and are leaving the bench in record numbers,'' it said. In addition, deputy White House Press Secretary Leslye Arsht said the National Institutes of Health had trouble attracting qualified scientists for senior positions in critical areas such as cancer research, and the average length of service in the executive branch had fallen to 18 months. Lloyd Cutler, chairman of the salary commission, said last month he expected strong pressure to abolish honoraria and other forms of outside pay. The public interest group Common Cause has reported that lawmakers accepted a record $9.8 million in speaking fees from special interest groups in 1987. The pay recommendations directly affect about 2,500 top federal employees and indirectly affect 10,000 other high-level employees whose pay is tied to salaries in the top echelon.
<irrelevant> President Reagan on Friday enthusiastically endorsed a proposed 50 percent pay raise for members of Congress and other top federal officials, saying ``the door to service'' in the nation's government must be open to Americans regardless of their financial status. Reagan tossed the politically sensitive pay plan to Congress after writing lawmakers that government jobs should not be ``the province only of the wealthy.'' He also urged lawmakers to abolish the much-criticized honoraria system that permits them to earn appearance fees from special-interest groups. The pay increase will become law automatically unless each house of Congress rejects it by Feb. 8 _ 30 days from Reagan's formal budget submission on Monday. House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, who normally sets the chamber's agenda, said Friday that he would ``neither encourage nor prevent a vote'' on the pay issue. He added that ``if the pay raise takes effect, there will be a ban on speaking fees and certain other forms of outside income. The exact provisions for the severe tightening of outside earning limitations are being drafted in bipartisan consultations.'' In the Senate, Majority Leader George J. Mitchell, D-Maine, has promised a vote. In maneuvering two years ago, Congress allowed a 15.6 percent pay raise to take effect. That time, the Senate voted 88-6 to reject the increase. The House permitted enactment, then took a meaningless voice vote against the increase. Rep. Tom Tauke, R-Iowa, has said he thinks Wright ``is committed to making sure there is no vote.'' Tauke has proposed legislation requiring Congress to vote on any pay raise, while delaying enactment until the next Congress. Sen. Gordon J. Humphrey, R-N.H., called the pay raise preposterous and said he had asked Senate leaders to schedule an early vote on a resolution of disapproval. ``The founding fathers meant for members to vote affirmatively for pay raises, as a means of ensuring accountability,'' Humphrey said. ``Instead, we have a system which violates the spirit of the Constitution, if not the letter, by severing all accountability.'' Reagan chose not to modify a presidential commission's recommendation that members of Congress and federal district judges, who now make $89,500 a year, be paid $135,000. The speaker's annual salary would go from $115,000 to $175,000, and that of majority and minority leaders from $99,500 to $155,000. Top executive-branch officials such as Cabinet members would get raises from their current $99,500 a year to $155,000. Reagan's proposal would raise a president's annual pay to about $350,000 from the current $200,000, where it has stood since 1969. However, such a hike would not take effect until 1993 because of a constitutional prohibition on raising a president's pay during his term. President-elect Bush said Friday he supported Reagan's decision, but may take another look at the issue when he becomes president. Asked by reporters if the nation could afford the big pay increase at a time when it is grappling with huge budget deficits, Bush said: ``Well, I don't know whether we can afford anything than to get this deficit under control.'' Reagan wrote Congress: ``We must ensure that the door to service remains open to Americans who must work to support their families, educate their children and save for their retirement.'' Addressing honoraria, Reagan said the fee system ``undermines public faith in the integrity of senior federal officials, particularly in the legislative branch. Congress should move immediately to enact legislation that takes a comprehensive approach to the problems posed by honoraria, including payments for articles, speeches and appearances, and other forms of financial benefits.'' Under the system, senators can pocket up to 40 percent of their salaries in honoraria _ $35,800 for the rank-and-file members _ while House members can hold on to 30 percent, or $26,850 for the rank-and-file. Fees over that amount go to charity. Rep. Vic Fazio, D-Calif., chairman of the House Appropriations legislative subcommittee, said he was pleased with Reagan's decision. ``This is a pay raise for all the top-level federal officials ... but, of course, we (Congress) take all the heat,'' he said. Fazio said he believes the Senate is likely to reject the raise, as it has in past years when the House allowed pay hikes to take effect. On Thursday, the nonpartisan National Taxpayers Union delivered petitions to the White House, saying they bear the names of 13,000 people who oppose the raise. The group's executive vice president, David Keating, said ``Congress is hoping to batten down the hatches and weather a 30-day storm of opposition. ``The public is not going to give up after 30 days. They will just get more angry at congressional double-dealing on the pay raise issue.'' Keating also said Reagan has a personal stake in his recommendation because his pension would rise by 56 percent if the pay raise is approved. He said the pension is tied to Cabinet salaries. The pension increase from $99,500 to $155,000 annually also would apply to former Presidents Ford, Carter and Nixon, Keating said. ``No employee of the federal government should be able to name his own pension before retirement. Yet, that's exactly what President Reagan has done,'' Keating said, adding that Reagan and the three former presidents should refuse the increase. A White House press spokesman, B.J. Cooper, said the taxpayer union figures were accurate, but had no comment on the call for Reagan to refuse the increase. ``The president was not aware of that when he approved the pay raise,'' Cooper said. ``I don't know whether it would have changed his decision, the other factors being so overwhelming.''
<irrelevant> Gov. James G. Martin was sworn in for his second term Saturday in a festive inauguration that marked the first time since 1901 that Republicans held the state's top two offices. James C. Gardner was sworn in as the state's first Republican lieutenant governor elected this century. Also taking the oath of office were eight Democratic Council of State officers. Martin, 53, is the state's second governor this century to win successive terms. The first was Democrat Jim Hunt. In his inaugural address to about 7,000 people, Martin outlined a policy agenda that included a career advancement plan for teachers and more highway funding. ``There are new challenges for us to face, along with unfinished business from the past,'' said Martin. ``There is indeed a brighter future for North Carolina.'' Martin affirmed his support for statewide implementation of the Career Ladder Program for teachers, a merit pay system he has pushed despite mixed reviews from educators and legislators. Sixteen school systems now use the program. The governor said he would establish task forces to study two of North Carolina's biggest problems: drug abuse and pollution. He also promised to support the recommendations of a legislative commission studying ways to finance a major highway construction program. But he endorsed no specific measures.
</top>
<top>
<num> 61
<title> Israeli Role in Iran-Contra Affair
<relevant> A federal appeals court Tuesday temporarily barred the judge in the Iran-Contra case from giving prosecutors a summary of Oliver L. North's defense, possibly delaying the former White House aide's trial. The three-judge panel of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to consider North's challenge of U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell's decision to let prosecutors see the summary of classified information defense lawyers want to elicit from high government officials during the trial. In a related development, Gesell refused to allow further censoring of 300 classified documents prosecutors want to use as evidence against North. The ruling again raised the possibility that major charges against North could be scuttled if the government refuses to divulge classified information at the trial. But an administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said it was too early to assess the impact of Gesell's decision on the case against North. The judge's decision does not spell the end of the case, the official said, adding that it may only force prosecutors to drop certain documents as evidence against North. pickup 4th graf pvs bgng:``Gesell denied Gesell denied a motion filed last month by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh to seek to accommodate objections of U.S. intelligence agencies to the court's Dec. 12 order. Meanwhile, North's lawyers subpoenaed Secretary of State George P. Shultz and four other State Department officials, including Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams, the top department official for Latin American policy. Also subpoenaed were Undersecretary Michael H. Armacost, legal adviser Abraham Sofaer and M. Charles Hill, Shultz's executive assistant. North also has had subpoenas issued for President Reagan and President-elect Bush. North is scheduled to go to trial Jan. 31 in U.S. District Court. But the appellate panel's action could delay the trial while it considers what the defense called ``grave constitutional issues'' involving North's right to a fair trial. Gesell's refusal to accomodate some of the objections of U.S. intelligence agencies to divulging certain classified information in the prosecution exhibits also raises new problems for Walsh. The judge is insisting, for instance, that references to Iran, Israel and Central American nations remain in the documents, despite a government request that the nations be referred to by letter. The CIA and other agencies also object to the judge's requirement that the full text of intelligence reports be presented verbatim. Gesell, meanwhile, granted Walsh permission to subpoena North's daily diaries of his activities that were kept throughout his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair. The judge gave North until Jan. 18 to either produce the spiral notebooks or object to turning over the material, which would be a key piece of evidence for prosecutors. In the dispute over the summary of the defense case, the defends contends that giving the 162-page document to Walsh will give prosecutors an unfair look at the defense strategy for the former National Security Council aide. The appellate panel agreed to consider North's request for a writ of mandamus that would permanently bar Gesell from turning over the defense summary to Walsh. It also issued an administrative stay that prohibited Gesell from proceeding with his original plan to give Walsh the summary by 4 p.m. on Tuesday. ``The purpose of the administrative stay is to permit the court sufficient opportunity to consider the pending motion and petition and should not be construed in any way as a ruling on the merits,'' said the brief order by Circuit Judges Kenneth Starr, James Buckley and David Sentelle. The stay has no time limit, so it could delay the scheduled start of North's trial on charges he conspired with three co-defendants to illegally divert more than $14 million in U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels, known as Contras. The summary would provide prosecutors with ``a detailed road map to the defense case and to potential cross-examination of prosecution witnesses,'' North's lawyers said in court papers. ``No defendant in the history of federal criminal jurisprudence has been compelled to reveal before trial the details of anticipated defense testimony on virtually every disputed factual issue in the case,'' North's lawyers said. In reply papers filed Tuesday, Walsh told the appeals court that he needed access to the defense summary in order to determine whether the classified information North wants to disclose in testimony is relevant to the case. Under the Classified Information Procedures Act, the defense must notify the government of its intention to disclose any classified information at public trial. In addition to seeking to disclose thousands of pages of documents, North has proposed revealing a variety of secrets, possibly about covert operations, while questioning current and former government officials called as witnesses in the case. Former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord, also charged in the case, are scheduled to be tried separately.
<relevant> Prosecutors dropped an illegal arms case against a retired Israeli army general and 10 other people after the defendants argued the United States wouldn't have frowned on $2 billion in U.S. weapons sales to Iran. An investigation by the U.S. attorney's office found no evidence linking the arms transactions charged in the indictment with the so-called Iran-Contra affair, court papers said. However, the defendants argued they had reason to believe their activities had or would receive U.S. government approval, a contention that gained credence after the Iran-Contra arms scandal came to light. The defendants said they believed their plan to sell fighter planes, missiles, tanks and spare parts to Iran was officially sanctioned by the U.S. government, according to papers filed in U.S. District Court. Prosecutors could not produce witnesses to contradict the defendants' claim so the conspiracy case was dropped Wednesday. Gen. Avraham Bar-Am, who left the Israeli army in 1984 and later served as an arms consultant for Israel, and Samuel Evans, an American lawyer based in London, were among the 11 people and four corporations named in the papers. They were indicted between May and October 1986. Evans also was the lawyer for Adnan Khashoggi, a multibillionaire Saudi arms dealer who was said to have been involved in some of the Iran-Contra weapons deals. The U.S. Customs Service had set up an elaborate ``sting'' using a fraudulent bank account in late 1985, about the time Reagan administration officials were secretly selling arms to Iran and using the proceeds to finance the Contras fighting to overthrow the leftist Nicaraguan government. The defendants charged that Cyrus Hashemi, an Iranian oilman identified as the U.S. government's chief operative in the sting, was at the same time involved in shipping covert arms to Iran for the administration. Prosecutors said that Hashemi would have contradicted the defendants' claim that they had the government's blessing. However, Hashemi died in 1986, and the government could not ``procure the attendance at trial of any (other) such witness,'' court papers said. In September and October 1986, U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani's office was told by the Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency that there were no documents to support allegations that the United States sanctioned the delivery of arms to Iran by the defendants. But it was publicly revealed in November 1986 that members of the National Security Council had secretly engaged in the sale of arms to Iran.
<relevant> Here is a brief chronology of events related to the Iran-Contra affair. MARCH 7 _ Cable News Network correspondent Jeremy Levin is kidnapped in Beirut. Levin, freed 11 months later, is first of 15 American hostages, of whom eight remain captive. Five were either freed or escaped. University librarian Peter Kilburn and CIA Beirut station chief William Buckley were murdered. SUMMER _ Iranian purchasing agents put out call for weapons, including TOW anti-tank missiles. By November, Iranians are suggesting link between weapons sales and release of U.S. hostages. JULY _ Israeli official suggests dealing with Iran to U.S. national security adviser Robert McFarlane and says transfer of arms could lead to release of hostages. McFarlane takes the message to President Reagan. AUG. 30 _ First planeload of U.S.-made weapons is sent from Israel to Tehran. McFarlane and Donald Regan, White House chief of staff, later disagree on whether Reagan approved shipment. Reagan says he does not remember. SEPT. 14 _ Second shipment is sent to Tehran. SEPT. 15 _ American hostage Rev. Benjamin Weir is released. DEC. 4 _ McFarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by Rear Adm. John Poindexter. DEC. 5 _ Reagan signs finding describing operation with Iran as strictly an arms-for-hostages deal. Poindexter later testifies that on Nov. 21, 1986, he tore up only copy of finding that bore the president's signature. DEC. 5 _ In discussions with Israeli officials about Iran arms shipments, national security aide Lt Col. Oliver North mentions plans to use Iranian weapons sales to generate profits that could be used to support Nicaragua's U.S.-backed Contras. JAN. 17 _ Reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing CIA participation in the sales and ordering process be kept secret from Congress. FEBRUARY _ First direct shipment of arms from Pentagon stocks is sent to Iran. APRIL _ North writes memo outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from Iran arms sales for Contra aid. MAY 25 _ North and McFarlane fly to Tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. Negotiations break down and they return to Washington. SEPT. 26 _ Iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into Swiss bank account. More spare parts and TOWs are prepared for shipment. OCT. 5 _ North flies to West Germany for meeting with Iranian contact who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 TOWs. NOV. 2 _ American hostage David Jacobsen, held since June 1985, is freed. NOV. 4 _ A pro-Syrian news magazine in Beirut breaks news that McFarlane had flown to Iran to meet and negotiate with officials there. NOV. 13 _ White House admits selling arms to Iran. Reagan repeats administration has not bargained with terrorists or sold arms for hostages. NOV. 21 _ CIA director William Casey briefs Senate Intelligence Committee on arms deal, but makes no mention of diversion of funds. North and his secretary, Fawn Hall, shred, alter and remove documents relevant to arms deal. NOV. 25 _ Reagan announces North has been fired and Poindexter has resigned. Attorney General Edwin Meese discloses $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to Contras. NOV. 26 _ Reagan sets up Tower Commission to review role of National Security Council. DEC. 1-3 _ Senate Intelligence Committee begins inquiry into revelations by questioning McFarlane. Committee also questions North and Poindexter, who both invoke the Fifth Amendment. DEC. 19 _ Lawrence E. Walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. Both houses of Congress select investigating committees. FEB. 18 _ Tower Commission issues its report rebuking Reagan for failing to control national security staff. MARCH 4 _ Reagan acknowledges in televised speech his Iranian initiative deteriorated into arms-for-hostages deal. ``It was a mistake.'' MAY 5 _ Congressional Iran-Contra hearings begin with testimony from retired Air Force Gen. Richard Secord, who describes how $3.5 million in proceeds from arms sales to Iran were diverted to Contras. MAY 6 _ Casey dies. MAY 11 _ McFarlane begins four days of testimony, during which he says Reagan instructed staff in 1984 to find ways around congressional ban on U.S. military aid to Contras. McFarlane denies he, North and Poindexter concocted cover story in early November 1986 to cover up administration's arms sales to Iran. JULY 7 _ North begins six days on stand during which he says he had authorization from his superiors for diverting Iran arms sale money to the Contras, Casey knew of diversion all along, and North always assumed Reagan knew about it. But he says he never discussed plan with the president or received written presidential authorization for it. JULY 15 _ Poindexter testifies over five days he never told Reagan Iran arms sale proceeds were being diverted to Contras. Poindexter says Reagan, in writing, authorized straight arms-for-hostages swap in December 1985 but Poindexter tore up the document in November 1986 as the affair unraveled. AUG. 6 _ Hearings conclude. NOV. 18 _ Final report of House and Senate investigating committees concludes Reagan bears ultimate responsibility for Iran-Contra affair because he allowed ``cabal of the zealots'' to seize control of policy and bypass the law. Committee Republicans dissented sharply, saying mistakes amounted only to errors of judgment. MARCH 16 _ North, Poindexter and two others are indicted on charges they conspired to divert Iranian arms sales profits to the Contras. ``I can assure you I will never give up, we will win, I just cannot tell you how soon,'' North says. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell. MARCH 17 _ Marlin Fitzwater, President Reagan's spokesman, says there has been no discussion of a pardon for North. MARCH 18 _ North announces he will retire from the Marine Corps May 1 because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government.'' MARCH 25 _ Reagan refers to ``the so-called scandal'' and says he still considers North ``my hero.'' JUNE 6 _ Gesell, who authorized turning over 300,000 documents to the defense, warns that the danger of exposing the nation's most sensitive secrets poses a serious obstacle to pressing the conspiracy charges against the four defendants. JUNE 8 _ Gesell orders separate trials for the four defendants; Walsh, the next day, chooses North for the leadoff trial. JULY 8 _ Gesell sets Sept. 20 for the start of North's trial. AUG. 5 _ Gesell reschedules trial for after the election to give lawyers time to sort through hundreds of thousands of classified documents and orders North to file a specific notice of the government secrets he wants to disclose. SEPT. 30 _ Federal appeals court rebuffs attempt by North and two other defendants to stop the prosecution. NOV. 7 _ One of 16 criminal counts, fabricating a document, is dismissed. NOV. 21 _ Gesell warns if North stands trial, the court will have little control over the testimony of witnesses ``acquainted with high security matters.'' He appeals to Reagan to decide whether North is to be pardoned. NOV. 29 _ Gesell refuses to dismiss two of the central charges against North, conspiracy to defraud the government and theft of government property. He dismisses a third, wire fraud. DEC. 1 _ President Reagan rules out a North pardon but says ``duty requires'' his administration to block release of secret documents North wants for his trial. DEC. 1 _ Amiram Nir, the Israeli go-between in secret U.S. arms deals with Iran, died Nov. 30 in a plane crash in Mexico while traveling under an assumed name, Mexican officials say. DEC. 12 _ Gesell tells North he can't use 3,500 secret documents; says he can't use more than 300, roughly the same number planned to be introduced as evidence by the prosecution. The decision removes a major obstacle to the trial going forward. DEC. 16 _ John W. Keker, a former Marine who was _ like North _ wounded in combat in Vietnam, is named to be lead prosecutor in North's trial. DEC. 21 _ Gesell sets Jan. 31 for the start of the trial. DEC. 30 _ North subpoenaes President Reagan and President-elect Bush as defense witnesses. The Justice Department says the summons ``raises significant legal and constitutional questions.'' JAN. 5 _ Prosecutors ask Gesell to dismiss conspiracy and theft charges, citing North's ``insistence on introducing classified information in his defense'' and the Reagan administration's refusal to release material the judge ruled North would need at trial. Gesell sets hearing for Jan. 9. Reagan says action satisfies concern about national security. Asked about a pardon, he says ``we're waiting for the judicial process to go forward.''
<relevant> Attorneys for fired National Security Council aide Oliver L. North disclosed today they have issued subpoenas in the Iran-Contra case to three House committees and two members of the House. North attorney Barry Simon said the subpoenas were sent to the House Intelligence, Foreign Affairs and Armed Services committees. The two members of Congress weren't identified. Defense subpoenas also were issued for two unidentified House staff members. The House, through the general counsel to the clerk, subsequently moved to quash portions of the subpoenas to the committees. A 22-page court brief said the panels could not allow the ``wholesale rummaging through the records of the House'' sought by North's lawyers. North's subpoenas require ``surrender of the broadest imaginable range of privileged documents,'' including ``the whole set of records'' of the House intelligence panel's investigation of the resupply operation for the Nicaraguan Contra rebels, the brief said. The committee began the investigation after the October 1986 shootdown of a Contra resupply plane in Nicaragua carrying American Eugene Hasenfus as one of its crew members. U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell said with regard to the two House members subpoenaed: ``We're not going to pull them off the floor. We're going to have to approach this part of the case with some degree of accommodation.'' North's trial is scheduled to get under way next Tuesday, although an interagency intelligence group is still reviewing classified documents that both the prosecution and defense want to use at trial. The brief references to subpoenas by North's defense team came at a court hearing where prosecutors argued in favor of subpoenaing North's spiral notebooks, which he compiled on a daily basis while he was at the NSC. Gesell said he would decide by Friday whether North should be compelled to produce the notebooks, portions of which were turned over to Congress for the Iran-Contra hearings in 1987. At the court hearing, Simon said the notebooks might be applied to the portion of the case alleging destruction of documents by North in November 1986 as the Iran-Contra affair was unfolding. Simon said prosecutors might try to link references in the notebooks to documents that North allegedly destroyed before leaving the NSC. Simon declined to acknowledge that the notebooks existed or were in North's possession, but he said North is entitled to Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination. The notebooks also delve into North's assistance to the Nicaraguan Contra rebels and his involvement in the Reagan administration's secret arms shipments to Iran. North took the last of the notebooks with him when he was dismissed on Nov. 25, 1986 after the diversion of Iran arms sale proceeds to the Contras was uncovered. Independent counsel Lawrence Walsh has been trying to get the notebooks since well before North's indictment last year. A subpoena for the material was issued through the federal grand jury investigating the Iran-Contra affair, but was withdrawn after North was charged, Walsh said in a court filing Monday. Walsh said the notes are ``presidential records over which the United States has complete ownership and control.'' The notebooks could be used by prosecutors in an attempt to bolster the portion of the government's case alleging that North made false statements to Congress by saying that the NSC offered no tactical advice to the Contras and by denying that he used his influence to help move supplies to them. North's notebooks describe successful efforts to obtain false end-user certificates from Guatemala stating that arms actually destined for the Contras were instead for the exclusive use of the Central American country to which they were being sent. The false certificates enabled one of North's co-defendants, Richard Secord, to ship more than 90,000 pounds of East European munitions by chartered aircraft from a European arms dealer to the Contras. North's notebooks also touch on his participation in efforts to secure space at a Salvadoran air base to launch Contra resupply missions, and the construction of an emergency airstrip in Santa Elena, Costa Rica, to help open a southern front of Contra military operations. The notebooks also detail North's participation in arranging the November 1985 shipment of Hawk missiles from Israel to Iran. One charge against North is that he obstructed Congress by helping to prepare a false chronology that said no U.S. official learned before January 1986 that Hawk missiles had been shipped to Iran in November 1985. In notebook entries for Nov. 20, 1985, several days before the Hawk missile shipment, North detailed a plan for shipping Hawks to Iran in exchange for a four-phase release of hostages.
<relevant> By his own account, Oliver L. North would have fallen on his sword for President Reagan more than two years ago if it weren't for the prospect of the Iran-Contra indictment which finally has gone to trial in U.S. District Court. Now, North and his attorneys have made clear that none of his former superiors is immune from their strategy for beating a criminal rap in Reagan's worst scandal. Reagan himself may be called to the dock; only President Bush has been excused, so far, by Judge Gerhard Gesell. After exhaustive investigations by a presidential commission and the Congress, it remains to be seen whether North's trial, expected to last five months, will produce any startling new revelations about the bizarre sale of weapons to Iran and the transfer of profits to the Nicaraguan rebels. But North, armed with reams of previously undisclosed documents, has vowed a ``fight to the end'' to prove that his actions in the case were authorized by others. As far as Reagan and Bush are concerned, neither North nor other Iran-Contra defendants could produce in the previous investigations any conclusive evidence to undermine the then-president and vice president's mutual disclaimer of any prior knowledge about the diversion of some of the Iranian arms money to the Contras, at a time when Congress forbade U.S. assistance to the rebels. But North repeatedly told Congress he ``presumed'' Reagan knew, and that he had sent several memos up the line from his National Security Council desk. Others have wondered how Bush, who attended many meetings where the arms deal was discussed, could have been ``out of the loop,'' as he has said. North also told Congress that the Iran-Contra caper was fully supported not only by his former immediate bosses, National Security Advisers Robert McFarlane and John Poindexter, but then-CIA Director William J. Casey, who died on May 7, 1987, a month before North broke his silence. Casey had acknowledged the CIA played a role in the shipment of arms to Iran, but denied knowing anything about the Contra end of the scheme. ``I was not the only one who was enthusiastic about the idea,'' said North in his Capitol Hill testimony. ``The director used many words, all effusive.'' According to North, Casey looked upon the Iran-Contra operation as just the beginning of things to come. ``He had in mind an overseas entity capable of conducting operations or activities in assistance of U.S. foreign-policy goals,'' North said. In Casey's view, North said, it would be``stand-alone, self-financing and independent of appropriations.'' North said Casey and other top administration officials wanted North to ``take the hit'' if and when the scheme unraveled. And the former Marine lieutenant colonel said he was prepared to do just that _ to a point. ``I do honestly believe that they expected Ollie would go quietly,'' North testified. ``And Ollie intended to do so, right up until the day that somebody decided to start a criminal prosecution.'' It is a case which had its beginnings, not in the United States or Iran or Nicaragua, but in Lebanon. And that is where it blew up in the administration's face, when a pr-Syrian magazine first reported, in early November of 1987, McFarlane's secret trip to Tehran in 1985. Here is a chronology of events, according to various reports and testimony: March 7 _ Cable News Network correspondent Jeremy Levin is kidnapped in Beirut. Levin, freed 11 months later, is the first of 16 Americans to be taken hostage. Five were either freed or escaped. University librarian Peter Kilburn and CIA Beirut station chief William Buckley were murdered. Among the nine still held is Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press. Summer _ Iranian purchasing agents put out a call for weapons, including TOW anti-tank missiles. July _ An Israeli official suggests a deal with Iran to McFarlane, saying the transfer of arms could lead to release of the hostages in Lebanon. McFarlane takes the message to President Reagan. Aug. 30 _ The first planeload of U.S.-made weapons is sent from Israel to Tehran. McFarlane and Donald Regan, White House chief of staff, later disagree on whether Reagan approved the shipment. Reagan says he does not remember. Sept. 14 _ A second arms shipment is sent to Tehran. Sept. 15 _ An American hostage, the Rev. Benjamin Weir, is released. Dec. 4 _ McFarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by Rear Adm. Poindexter. Dec. 5 _ Reagan signs a presidential ``finding'' describing the operation with Iran as an arms-for-hostages deal. Poindexter later testifies that on Nov. 21, 1986, he tore up the only copy of the finding. Dec. 5 _ In discussions with Israeli officials about Iran arms shipments, North mentions plans to use the profits to support the Contras. Jan. 17 _ Reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing CIA participation in the sales and ordering the process kept secret from Congress. February _ The first direct shipment of arms from Pentagon stocks is sent to Iran. April _ North writes a memo outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from Iran arms sales for Contra aid. May 25 _ North and McFarlane fly to Tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. Negotiations break down and they return to Washington. Sept. 26 _ Iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into a Swiss bank account. More spare parts and TOWs are prepared for shipment. Oct. 5 _ North flies to West Germany to meet with an Iranian contact who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 TOWs. Nov. 2 _ American hostage David Jacobsen, held since June 1985, is freed. Nov. 4 _ A pro-Syrian news magazine in Beirut breaks the news that McFarlane had flown to Iran to meet and negotiate with officials there. Nov. 13 _ The White House admits selling arms to Iran, despite a public policy of supporting an international arms boycott of the nation, which it has branded a terrorist state. Reagan denies that the administration has bargained with terrorists or sold arms for hostages. Nov. 21 _ CIA Director Casey briefs the Senate Intelligence Committee on the arms deal, but makes no mention of the diversion of funds. North and his secretary, Fawn Hall, shred, alter and remove documents from his office. Nov. 25 _ Reagan announces North has been fired and Poindexter has resigned. Attorney General Edwin Meese discloses that $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to Contras. Nov. 26 _ Reagan sets up the Tower Commission to review the role of National Security Council. Dec. 1-3 _ The Senate Intelligence Committee begins an inquiry by questioning McFarlane. North and Poindexter, meanwhile, invoke the Fifth Amendment. Dec. 19 _ Lawrence E. Walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. Both houses of Congress select investigating committees.
<irrelevant> Foreign Minister Moshe Arens complained Tuesday that European nations were making Middle East peace moves without consulting Israel, and he said his nation was willing to suffer isolation in the world for its own security. Four members of Israel's parliament, meanwhile, planned to defy Israeli law and meet with officials of the Palestine Liberation Organization. In the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, three Palestinians were reported wounded in clashes with soldiers, and troops demolished or sealed three houses of Arabs suspected of attacks on soldiers or Arabs cooperating with Israeli authorities. Three residents of Gaza's Jabalya refugee camp were sentenced to 14 years in prison each for throwing firebombs, taking part in riots or belonging to groups organizing the nearly 13-month-old Palestinian uprising, the army said. Arens, in his first news conference with foreign reporters, criticized the U.S. decision to hold talks with the PLO. He emphasized that negotiating with the PLO could not further the peace process, but he refused to outline Israel's plans for reaching peace with the Palestinians and its Arab neighbors. Arens said Israel does not approve of the European Community's plan, announced Monday, to start a Middle East peace initiative by encouraging an international conference on the region. ``I think it would be better if prior to undertaking any kind of intitiative, the members of the European Community were to meet with us,'' he said. ``I think there is probably no reason why European countries should not listen with considerable attention to our opinions, to our feelings.'' Arens, 63, became foreign minister with the formation of Israel's new government Dec. 22. He is a member of the Likud bloc of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, which has opposed an international Middle East peace conference. Arens, a former ambassador to Washington, also criticized the U.S. talks with the PLO, saying: ``We are concerned that this decision might impair our ability to fight the plague of international terrorism.'' Asked if Israel felt isolated by the Europeans and the United States, Arens said his government does not welcome isolation but will accept it if necessary for its security. ``We should not be expected to take any step that might decrease the sense of isolation ... if they are steps that would endanger the state of Israel,'' he said. Also Tuesday, an Israeli legislator said he and three colleagues plan to attend a European symposium on the Middle East, defying a ban on meetings with PLO officials. ``We have to speak to the Palestinians directly and reach peace with them through compromise,'' said legislator Lova Eliav. ``Our generation must speak to the Palestinian leadership, and the Palestinian leadership is the PLO.'' Those attending the meeting in Paris on Jan. 12-13 include Eliav and Ora Namir of the mainstream Labor Party, Yair Tsaban of the socialist Mapam Party, and Shulamit Aloni of the left-wing Citizens Rights Movement. The PLO is banned in Israel and meetings with its members are illegal, but the four legislators have parliamentary immunity. Recent opinion polls show a majority of Israelis support talks with the PLO. In Jabalya, soldiers demolished one Palestinian home and sealed parts of two others after arresting residents suspected of attacks on Israeli soldiers or Arabs cooperating with Israel, the army said. The action against the Arab homes came Monday night, after two other Palestinian houses were demolished earlier in the day. The army statement announcing the sentencing of three Palestinians to prison said that all three were from the Jabalya camp but that house demolitions were not tied to their cases. The moves against Palestinian houses seem to be part of a stepped-up campaign to try to halt the Palestinian uprising against Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Israel also deported 13 Palestinians on Sunday. The International Committee of the Red Cross on Tuesday appealed to Israel to stop such deportations, saying they violated international law. In the West Bank, soldiers shot and wounded three Palestinians during clashes with stone-throwing youths in the towns of Ramallah and Tulkarem, Arab news reports said. One of the victims was an 8-year-old boy shot in the back, a hospital official said. The army said it was checking reports of injuries. Since the uprising began in December 1987, at least 345 Palestinians and 14 Israelis have died in violence.
<irrelevant> Israeli soldiers killed a 16-year-old boy Wednesday and wounded five other Palestinians, hospital officials reported, and left-wing legislators said they would defy Israeli law and meet with PLO officials. A Palestinian man was shot dead in Jericho in the occupied West Bank, but it was not clear whether the killing was connected with the 13-month-old uprising in the occupied territories. Conferences are planned in Paris and the Hague later this month despite Israeli laws that prohibit meetings with the Palestine Liberation Organization. A Palestinian newspaper and Israeli magazine announced plans Wednesday for a similar meeting in New York in March, to which members of Israel's parliament and the Palestine National Council, the PLO legislature, would be invited. In the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, soldiers opened fire during at least four clashes with stone-throwing youths, according to Arab reports and hospital officials. Nasser Ismail Nasser, 16, was killed In Gaza's Deir el Balah refugee camp, officials at Ahli Arab hospital in Gaza City said. The army confirmed Nasser's death, which brought to 346 the number of Palestinians killed in the rebellion. Fourteen Israelis also have died. In Jericho, 25-year-old Bassam Barahme was killed by unidentified gunmen near his home Wednesday night, army officials and Israel radio reported. Barahme was taken to Mukassad Hospital in Arab east Jerusalem and died of two bullet wounds, the radio said. The reason for the attack was not known. A military official said: ``Troops were not involved. It was a clash between residents.'' The uprising has been credited with bringing about a more moderate stance by PLO chairman Yasser Arafat that has, in turn, encouraged some Israelis to press for a talks with the PLO. Arafat said Wednesday his peace overtures to Israel would be withdrawn unless it agreed to negotiate. ``I don't expect Israel to accept peace easily or to give in easily,'' he said during a rally in Cairo after a meeting with President Hosni Mubarak of Egype. But if Israel continues to spurn talks, ``I will return to the Palestine National Council and tell them: it's no use, these people (Israelis) do not want peace.'' In Jerusalem, Lova Eliav of Israel's mainstream Labor Party said Wednesday that he and five other Israeli politicians would attend the meetings with PLO officials. ``I think the Israeli government must negotiate with the PLO and the meetings in The Hague and Paris can be a catalyst for future meetings,'' he said. Organizers of the Hague meeting said they believed the PLO would be represented by two top officials, Bassam Abu Sharif and Khaled Al Hassan. Eliav said he and and fellow Labor Party member Ora Namir would go to Paris, along with Yair Tsaban of the socialist Mapam Party and Shulamit Aloni of the left-wing Citizens Rights Movement. All are members of Israel's parliament. He said Abba Eban, a former Labor foreign minister, and Haim Tzadok, a former Supreme Court justice, would attend the Hague meeting. The Hebrew-language Hadashot newspaper also reported an unidentified Labor legislator was trying to arrange a meeting with Arafat in Paris. Meanwhile, Palestinian editor Hanna Seniora said his PLO-backed newspaper Al Fajr and the Israeli magazine New Outlook would sponsor a meeting March 18-20 in New York to bring Palestinians and Israelis together. After Arafat said Dec. 14 in Geneva that the PLO recognized Israel's right to exist and renounced terrorism, the United States opened meetings with the PLO. But Israeli officials continue to denounce Arafat's organization as a terrorist group. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Wednesday that the ministry asked Israeli legislators not to attend the meetings. A group of 31 right-wing and religious party lawmakers also asked government officials to legally block those going to Paris from leaving Israel. An army official said the military was investigating the death of an 11-year-old Palestinian who, family members charge, suffered a fatal head injury when he was pushed off a military jeep on Dec. 10. The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was no evidence that the boy, Badr Karadeh of Nablus, was ever in military custody. But a Palestinian physician, Dr. Abdel Hadi Abu Zant of Nablus, said he saw the boy seized, beaten and taken away by Israeli soldiers in a jeep. Two left-wing members of parliament _ Dedi Zucker and Yossi Sarid of the Citizens Rights Movement _ have called for a Defense Ministry probe. In another development, Mayor Elias Freij of the West Bank town of Bethlehem, who proposed a truce in the uprising, appeared to be in hiding Wednesday after a warning from Arafat and death threats painted on the town walls. Freij had proposed conditions under which Israel would free 5,000 Palestinian prisoners, allow universities to open, and hold municipal elections for the first time in 12 years. Arafat, in remarks broadcast Monday, said, ``No one can stop the intefadeh, and any responsible Palestinian calling for stopping it exposes himself to the bullets of our people.''
<irrelevant> A powerful weapon in Oliver L. North's defense arsenal may be silenced by the prosecution's decision to drop the two central charges against him in the Iran-Contra case. The ex-Marine's continued demand to include national secrets in the case was delaying the trial while independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh fought a rear-guard action with intelligence agencies over the release of classified information demanded by the court. Faced with the Reagan administration's refusal to allow more disclosures of secret information in his own evidence, Walsh streamlined the case Thursday by asking the court to dismiss the two charges most laden with national security problems. If as expected U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell grants Walsh's motion, the prosecutor will surrender the most politically explosive charges, which allege a criminal conspiracy to divert U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels. But Laurence Tribe, a constitutional scholar at Harvard University Law School, who has done some legal work for Walsh, says what's left is a ``lean and mean'' set of allegations that North shredded documents, lied to Congress and obstructed a presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Walsh can ``proceed without the cloud of national security'' hanging over the remaining charges against the former National Security Council aide, Tribe said. The move may also defuse the difficult legal issue raised by North's issuance of subpoenas for President Reagan and President-elect Bush to testify in court. That question, unresolved by the courts, could have delayed the trial for months while White House lawyers fought the summonses all the way to the Supreme Court. Without charges he conspired to corrupt Reagan's legitimate effort to sell arms to free American hostages, North will have a harder time justifying the need to subpoena Reagan and Bush. ``When those issues are removed, both the need for presidential testimony and the need for the great bulk of the documents that allegedly might compromise national security are radically reduced,'' Tribe said. North can no longer claim that he thought he was acting with presidential authority when he secretly helped finance the Nicaraguan rebel cause with money from the arms-for-hostages deals. Therefore he has no need to use classified documents to support a contention that his modus operandi in other, authorized, covert operations was no different from the role he played overseeing the secret arms network for the Contras. It is unlikely Gesell would let North claim he thought he was acting with presidential authority when he shredded National Security Council documents and lied to Attorney General Edwin Meese III during the November 1986 presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. The 12 remaining charges are all felonies that carry penalties ranging from two to 10 years imprisonment and fines up to $250,000. ``It's a sad day when we think charges of lying to Congress, obstructing (a presidential inquiry)... and destroying documents are somehow relatively unimportant,'' Tribe said. ``In the broader scheme of things those charges should be taken very seriously.'' Some of those charges may still pose some secrecy problems for Walsh, and he may have to jettison a few other counts of the indictment. But it greatly increases the likelihood that the case will go to trial in the near future. Tribe said it also reduced the possibility that Reagan would reverse his oft-stated position and issue a pardon. ``The need to use a pardon as a means of preserving the alleged confidentiality of executive information is a greatly reduced one.'' Another Harvard University law professor, Alan Dershowitz, said he thought dismissal of the two major charges against the retired Marine colonel will ``make it a lot easier... for North to defend himself at trial.'' ``He won this battle,'' Dershowitz said. ``It remains to be seen whether he's gonna win the war.'' EDITOR'S NOTE: James Rowley covers the Justice Department for The Associated Press and has written about the Iran-Contra case for two years.
<irrelevant> The prosecution's request to drop the most sweeping and controversial Iran-Contra charges against Oliver L. North could make it easier to put the former presidential aide on trial, legal experts say. The most politically explosive charges, alleging a conspiracy to divert to Nicaraguan rebels $14 million in proceeds from U.S.-Iran arms sales, will be gone if the dismissal move by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh succeeds. But some experts say that would leave a ``lean and mean'' case against North, free of problems that have bogged down the proceedings for months. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell will decide whether to grant the dismissal motion. If he does, prosecutors will still be able to try the former National Security Council aide on 12 felony charges, including allegations that he shredded documents and lied both to Congress and a presidential inquiry in an effort to conceal his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair. ``The sex appeal part of this case is always the conspiracy,'' said Washington attorney Stanley Brand. ``But there is still a substantial case left.'' ``Lying to Congress and obstruction of justice are not small matters, if in fact that's what happened,'' said Brand, a former counsel to the House of Representatives. ``Lying to the Congress may be worse'' than actually diverting arms-sale proceeds to help the Contras at a time lawmakers had banned such assistance to the rebels, Brand said. ``The public's perception of this and what it says about the distribution of powers among the branches of government is as important to me as whether anybody goes to jail,'' he added. The remaining counts carry prison terms totaling 60 years. They include charges that North lied to Congress in 1985 and 1986 about his involvement in the covert Contra resupply operation. North also is accused of accepting installation of a $13,800 security fence around his suburban Virginia home, pocketing at least $4,300 in travelers checks from Contra leader Adolfo Calero and illegally using a tax-exempt foundation to raise money for the rebels. Other counts charge that North lied to Attorney General Edwin Meese III and destroyed official documents during the Nov. 20-23, 1986, presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Since the indictment was returned March 16, a number of federal prosecutors have privately criticized Walsh for bringing a broad conspiracy charge against North and his three co-defendants. These prosecutors questioned the wisdom of trying to criminalize the conduct of North, former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord. But many of these same prosecutors also supported the decision to charge North with destroying documents and lying to Meese. The Justice Department last fall filed a brief criticizing a legal theory Walsh used to support the conspiracy charge, saying it would set a dangerous precedent for prosecuting government officials whose conduct had not actually violated any laws. Brand rejected this criticism of Walsh's use of the conspiracy statute, a popular law among federal prosecutors in other cases. ``It was fine with those guys to use it against politicians when they thought it was in their interest,'' he said. Walsh successfully defended the legality of the charges he brought against North. Gesell refused to dismiss all but two of the 16 original charges. From the start, however, there was a problem about the conspiracy and theft charges. North's defense against the charges _ that he thought he was acting with President Reagan's permission _ hinged in part on highly secret information about covert operations. Gesell, meanwhile, stuck to his ruling that the prosecution must disclose more information than the Reagan administration wanted released in open court. That prompted Walsh on Thursday to seek dismissal of the key charges, a motion in all likelihood Gesell will grant at a hearing Monday. Walsh's decision prompted charges that the Reagan administration deliberately held back releasing some secrets to help scuttle the major charges against North. But Attorney General Richard Thornburgh defended the administration, noting that when Walsh informed him of the decision the independent counsel did not complain that the intelligence agencies had treated him unfairly. Reagan himself said Walsh's decision ``satisfies our problem, which has been concern.. about national security.'' North's lawyer, Brendan V. Sullivan Jr., said in a statement that ``although the heart of its case is destroyed, the independent counsel continues to toy with Col. North.'' Sullivan vowed to continue to press the secrecy issue on the remaining charges, stating that Walsh ``apparently refuses to recognize that classified information pervades the remaining charges as well.'' But Laurence Tribe, a Harvard University law professor who has done some work for Walsh's office, said the secrecy problems will be ``radically reduced'' once the conspiracy and theft charges are dismissed. Walsh will have ``a lean and mean version of the prosecution,'' Tribe said. ``With must of the most dramatic conspiracy and theft elements removed.. (Walsh) can proceed without the cloud of national security'' hanging over the case.
<irrelevant> An Israeli-appointed city official in the West Bank was stabbed in the head Sunday in the third attack in a week on Palestinians suspected of ties with Israel. Town councilor Yussef Mohammed Milhem survived the attack, which came after calls in underground leaflets to punish collaborators and force Israeli-appointed Palestinian officials to resign. Also Sunday, Palestinians closed stores and schools throughout the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip in a general strike marking 13 months of the uprising. Since the uprising began Dec. 8, 1987, 348 Palestinians and 15 Israelis have been killed. At least 12 Palestinians were shot and wounded in Sunday clashes with soldiers in the occupied territories, said Arab reports and hospital officials. An army spokesman confirmed that two youths were wounded in army gunfire and said he was checking other reports of injuries. A preliminary police report Sunday indicated an Israeli taxi driver slain Thursday in the West Bank was killed by Palestinian nationalists, Israel radio said. Shmuel Edri, 42, of Tel Aviv, was shot twice in the chest near the Jewish settlement of Yakir, 25 miles north of Jerusalem. Police found footprints of two people leading from the car to the Arab village of Bani Hassan, the radio said. The military government in the territories also announced Sunday that international telephone service was restored to the West Bank and Gaza after 10 months. Service was cut to block contacts from the territories to Palestine Liberation Organization officials overseas. There was no immediate explanation for the restored service. Hospital officials said the wounded in Sunday's clashes included a 16-year-old shot in the face and a 15-year-old hit in the stomach. A 10-year-old girl also was reported shot in the face by a rubber bullet. In the West Bank town of Jenin, five people were slightly injured when two firebombs thrown at an Israeli bank exploded, Israel army radio reported. In Israel, police said a 21-year-old Palestinian was arrested near the Arab village of Umm Al Fahm after a firebomb was thrown at an Israeli bus. It caused no injuries or damage. The army imposed curfews on five Gaza refugee camps because of Sunday's strike, confining at least 150,000 Palestinians to their homes indefinitely. Curfews and the strike kept tens of thousands of Palestinians from jobs in Israel. The strike, called by the pro-PLO Unified National Leadership of the Uprising, stopped public transportation and closed all businesses and schools. Hamas, an Islamic fundamentalist organization opposed to PLO chief Yasser Arafat's peacemaking efforts, has called a strike for Monday. It is viewed as a challenge to the PLO's local leadership. The latest attack against a Palestinian accused of links to Israel came in the early hours of Sunday in the West Bank city of Qalqilya. Milhem, 45, was stabbed in the head when he went to Qalqilya Hospital for treatment of a minor illness, officials said. He was transferred to an Israeli hospital, where he was reported in fair condition after surgery. ``This is not acceptable at all. Everyone condemns it,'' said Abdel Rahman Abu Sneineh, Israeli-appointed mayor of the city of 20,000. Friday night, West Bank village leader Mahmoud Abdallah Hamoudah, 67, was killed. Israel radio said he as suspected of collaborating with Israel. On Wednesday, Bassam Barameh, 25, of Jericho, was shot to death. Palestinian residents said he was a suspected collaborator. More than a dozen suspected collaborators have been killed in the uprising.
</top>
<top>
<num> 62
<title> Military Coups D'etat
<relevant> The military government blamed lawlessness for delaying free elections, and official sources said balloting to end more than a quarter-century of one-party rule might not take place until 1990. ``We need peace and tranquility in the country. If there is no law and order, how can we have elections?'' said Brig. Gen. Khin Nyunt, ranked No. 2 in a military council that has ruled Burma since it seized power Sept. 18 and brutally put down a nationwide uprising. The general did not specify Friday what disorder the nation was experiencing, and there has been no known resurgence of violent protest since the government, by its count, killed 500 people after the takeover. Western diplomats say about 1,000 were killed and dispute the government's claim that most of those killed were looters and ``destructive elements'' _ not pro-democracy demonstrators. Khin Nyunt told a news conference the government would keep schools closed, maintain a curfew and continue restrictions on opposition parties being mentioned in the state controlled media. ``Further opening will come slowly,'' he said. He repeatedly denied the government had arrested, tortured or executed student activists who had returned from border areas after fleeing the military repression. The London-based human rights group Amnesty International claimed earlier this month that students returning from the Thai-Burmese border had been arrested. The U.S. State Department said it had ``credible reports'' that some returnees had been executed. Rangoon says about 2,000 students and others who participated in pro-democracy demonstrations last year have returned home, among them 320 repatriated under a Thai government-sponsored program. Shunned by the international community, including former aid donors Japan and West Germany, the military has attempted to improve its tarnished rights image. The news conference came at the end of a three-day, four-city trip arranged for 46 foreign correspondents, who interviewed nearly 150 repatriated students and some of their parents. Burmese officials could not recall such a large foreign press presence since the country gained independence from Britain in 1948. Speaking with the authorities present, most students denied knowledge of arrests or lengthy interrogations although a few said they knew of some returning activists who were detained. Among students the government assembled for the journalists in the city of Taunggyi were Myo Win Htun and Kyi Moe, whom Amnesty had said were feared arrested. Myo Win Htun charged Thai authorities had exerted ``psychological pressure'' on him and some colleagues to return to Burma from a special repatriation center. He said he was forced to dig cesspools and cut down trees. He went on a hunger strike to protest his return. Thailand has said that all students returned voluntarily from its border center. ``We were not molested but we're uncertain about our situation,'' said Aung Htu, a 26-year-old student from Meiktila. He and virtually all others expressed their support for a democractic system and free elections. Khin Nyunt said he could not specify the date of elections to end one-party rule that began in 1962. But official sources said these would probably not take place until late this year or 1990. While the military had not set a polling date, Western analysts had speculated they would be held before mid-1989. To date, 182 political parties have registered with the election commission. Khim Nyunt, secretary of the State Law and Order Restoration Council, acknowledged that authorities were detaining some people, including lawyer Nay Min and political satirist Thu Ra, on charges of inciting insurrection and endangering national unity during the uprisings. But he denied Nay Min and Thu Ra had been tortured or poorly treated in detention. Uprisings last year prompted the resignation of Ne Win, who took over in a 1962 military coup. Pro-democracy protests by hundreds of thousands of people forced the resignation of his successor and led to the sacking of another by the military.
<relevant> The government will still accept refugees who fled after September's military coup, even though the deadline for return under a repatriation program expired, a government spokesman said Tuesday. The spokesman, Kyaw Sann, said 2,313 students and others who fled had already returned from border areas. The government estimated that 3,000 people fled to the Thai-Burmese border and other frontier areas after the Sept. 18 coup and shootings of hundreds of anti-government demonstrators. The guerrillas put the number of refugees at more than 5,000. Sann said although the formal deadline for return would not be extended, refugees would still be accepted at 27 government centers. Most of the students joined Karens and other ethnic minority groups fighting the central government. Human rights groups have accused Burmese authorities of arresting, torturing and executing some who returned. The government denies the charges.
<relevant> A judge today acquitted a prominent supporter of Ferdinand Marcos of rebellion, saying his takeover of a provincial government during a 1987 coup attempt was not violent enough to merit conviction. But Judge Maximiano Asuncion sentenced Orlando Dulay to 10 months in prison and fined him the equivalent of $50 for trying to strangle the governor and holding other officials and employees of Quirino province during the Aug. 28, 1987 coup attempt, in which 53 people were killed in Manila. It was the most serious of about a half-dozen coup attempts since President Corazon Aquino rose to power in a February 1986 revolt that sent Marcos into exile in Hawaii. Records of the case show that Dulay and about 50 rebel soldiers and police barged into the capitol building in the Qurino provincial capital of Cabarroguis and announced a takeover of the local government. But in acquitting Dulay and four other defendants, Asuncion said that announcing a takeover and appointing new officials ``are not sufficient to hold them liable for the crime of rebellion.'' ``To constitute rebellion, there must be some sort of public uprising which is absent in the instant case,'' said the judge. ``And when we say public uprising, there must be men engaging in war against the forces of government.'' ``In order to commit the crime rebellion, there must be public uprising and taking of arms against the government,'' the judge added. Dulay has been in jail since March 1987 _ longer than his sentence. But Asuncion did not order Dulay's release because he faces charges of murdering two supporters of Mrs. Aquino during the February 1986 presidential election. Dulay was in jail in Quirino, 100 miles north of Manila, pending trial on the murder charges when the coup attempt began. Some of the soldiers and policemen who preceded him to the capitol building during the brief takeover were his prison guards. During the trial, prosecutors presented witnesses who described how Dulay wrung the neck of Gov. Renicolas Delizo and yelled: ``Goddamn, you will die, I will kill you.'' Dulay, who was dressed in military combat fatigues, then put a gun to Delizo's head, the witnesses said. Dulay and his armed followers next herded Delizo and others into the governor's office and held them there until midnight, when it became clear in Manila that the coup attempt had failed. Dulay acknowledged that he grabbed Delizo by the neck but claimed that was merely for ``psychological effect.'' He also said it was not he was who tried to takeover Quirino. Dulay headed the provincial chapter of the New Society Movement in Quirino. He and his followers were accused of murdering two civilians campaigning for Mrs. Aquino in Quirino during the 1986 election which both Mrs. Aquino and Marcos claimed they won. Dulay was arrested shortly after Marcos left, but escaped from a suburban Manila military prison. He resurfaced in the United States but was expelled back to Manila on March 18, 1987. Last June, armed men attacked the stockade at Manila's Camp Crame, where Dulay was held, in what the military said was a bid to free him. The group failed to free Dulay but looted the garrison's armory.
<relevant> Troops backed by helicopter gunships battled Moslem rebels in a southern province, and 43 people were killed, the military said Wednesday. Tuesday's battle in Zamboanga del Sur province, about 500 miles southeast of Manila, was the bloodiest clash with Moslem rebels since a cease-fire went into effect in 1986. Also, a judge in Manila on Wednesday acquitted a former associate of ex-President Ferdinand Marcos of rebellion charges in connection with an attempt to topple the government of President Corazon Aquino. The Aug. 28, 1987, coup attempt left more than 50 dead and was the most serious attempt to overthrow Mrs. Aquino, who became president after a popular and military uprising ousted Marcos in 1986. The battle Tuesday between Philippine Army troops and Moslem rebels claimed the lives of 32 guerrillas, eight civilians, two government militiamen and one soldier. Reports said fighting erupted after about 300 rebels from the Moro National Liberation Front and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front attacked the village of Kulasian to avenge the deaths of some colleagues. Gunboats were dispatched to the area to prevent the rebels from escaping by sea, reports said. Troops then conducted an air and ground assault. Both the Moro National Liberation Front and the rival Moro Islamic Liberation Front have been fighting for Moslem rule on Mindanao and other southern islands since 1972. But fighting has been reduced to sporadic skirmishes since the guerrillas agreed to a cease-fire in 1986. Officials estimate that more than 50,000 people were killed at the height of the Moslem rebellion in the mid-1970s. In Manila, Judge Maximiano Asuncion ruled there was insufficient evidence to convict former provincial Gov. Orlando Dulay of rebellion charges in connection with his takeover of the provincial capitol building in Quirino province north of Manila. But the judge sentenced Dulay to 10 months in prison and fined him $50 for trying to strangle then-Quirino Gov. Renicolas Delizo and holding several employees during the takeover. Asuncion said Dulay's takeover of the building was not part of a ``public uprising'' necessary to convict him of rebellion. The incident took place as more than 2,000 mutineers led by renegade Lt. Col. Gregorio Honasan stormed the presidential palace and media and military facilities in Manila. At least 53 people were killed and more than 300 were wounded in the coup attempt. Honasan escaped from a prison ship with some of his guards in April and has not been found. Dulay had been held in a Quirino jail since March 1987 in connection with the slaying of two Aquino supporters during the 1986 presidential election between Marcos and Mrs. Aquino. Witnesses testified that Dulay was released during the coup attempt and, dressed in combat fatigues, led a force to the capitol building, where he herded Delizo and others into the governor's office at gunpoint.
<relevant> The No. 2 army commander seized power today in a coup the official radio said ousted President Alfredo Stroessner, the longest ruling leader in the Western Hemisphere. Gen. Andres Rodriguez, the second-in-command of the army and a close associate of Gen. Stroessner, said in a radio broadcast that Paraguay's commander-in-chief for 34 years had surrendered. The announcement came after hours of gunfights and cannon fire in the capital's streets Thursday night between rebel soldiers backed by tanks and mortars and forces loyal to Stoessner. There was no official word on casualties, but residents who ventured out this morning saw bloodstains on the pavement. The country's borders were closed. The police headquarters was pockmarked with bullets from small arms fire, and metal shredded by the bullets hung from the modern National Telephone building behind the police station. ``Order has been re-established, and with it all the human values of our entire constitution will be respected,'' said Rodriguez, who is father-in-law to Stroessner's youngest son, Alfredo. ``I communicate to you that Gen. Stroessner has surrendered and finds himself in perfect health, deprived of liberty, being shown all human rights, at a residence within the First Army Corps,'' he said in the broadcast. Rodriguez said he was ``taking command of the country from this moment.'' Diplomats and political sources said shortly before the coup that Rodriguez for undetermined reasons apparently was ordered to give up his command and retire or accept the post of defense minister. He refused. The rebellion also followed a dispute within the ruling Colorado Party between a militant pro-Stroessner faction and traditionalists who wanted to distance the 100-year-old party from the authoritarian general. In Washington, a senior U.S. official said the United States was monitoring the situation. ``We don't like violence, of course, and we hope that whatever government emerges will embrace democracy.'' Stroessner, 76, has been the absolute ruler of this landlocked South American country since 1954. He was army commander-in-chief, doled out political favors and jobs to his allies and called anyone who opposed him a Marxist subversive. He frequently exiled political opponents. However, Stroessner, a staunch U.S. ally, has been in poor health following prostate surgery five months ago. In an earlier radio communique, Rodriguez said he and his men ``left our barracks in defense of the dignity and the honor of the armed forces, for the full and total unification of the ruling Colorado Party, for the initiation of democratization in Paraguay (and) for the respect of human rights.'' Early today, radio reports quoted an infantry division commander, Brig. Gen. Ismael Otazu, as saying the uprising was not ``insubordination but a correction.'' Col. Dionisio Cabello told March 1 radio he was the new air force commander and pledged allegiance to Rodriguez. Infantry divisions in three interior cities _ Villarrica, San Juan Bautista and Concepcion _ and an air force unit sided almost immediately with the rebels, the reports indicated. Soldiers today blocked the street in front of the National Palace near the central business district of this capital city of 900,000. The palace did not look like it sustained damage, but residents saw bloodstains on nearby streets. ``We're happy the government is gone, but we're sad that people had to die,'' said one woman, who added that the shelling and small arms fire had forced her to spend Thursday night in a restaurant. Spokesman for the National Accord, a coalition of business, church and political leaders who have called for democratic reforms, said a transitional military junta may be named today to govern until general elections are held. They spoke on condition of anonymity. Rodriguez, who did not mention a transitional junta or elections, is identified with a faction within the Colorado Party that favors limited democratic reforms. The uprising began late Thursday when the nation's largest military unit, the First Army Corps, fired at the headquarters of the police and presidential guard in shooting that lasted until dawn. Residents of Asuncion quickly deserted the streets when the firefights involving cannon, recoilless rifles and heavy machine guns broke out. Witnesses reported seeing 40 to 50 tanks rumble downtown. ``We're all keeping our heads down. We can hear mortar rounds landing'' at the presidential escort battalion, a U.S. diplomat said. The embassy is located between the battalion and Stroessner's official residence. Domingo Laino, leader of the opposition Authentic Radical Liberal Party, said: ``It has something to do with Rodriguez and (Sabino) Montonaro,'' who is the interior minister and president of the Colorado Party. Montonaro leads the militant faction, which took over party leadership in August 1987 and since has purged its opponents from positions of power. The military and the Colorado Party control nearly all facets of life in the California-sized nation of nearly 4 million between Brazil, Bolivia and Argentina. Although closely allied with the United States, Stroessner was criticized for human rights abuses by the Reagan administration in 1986. Stroessner toppled President Federico Chavez in 1954.
<irrelevant> Nicaraguan rebel leaders on Monday told Costa Rican President Oscar Arias they are willing to attend peace talks in Washington with the leftist Nicaraguan government. ``We have the honor of confirming to you, Mr. President, our willingness to reach a political solution to the conflict and that we have decided to accept Washington as the city where negotiations with the Sandinista government should continue,'' the leadership of the Nicaraguan Resistance, the rebels' political organization, told Arias in a letter. Arias is the author of a 1987 peace plan for Central America that calls, in part, for negotiated solutions to civil conflicts in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. A tenuous cease-fire agreement between the U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebels, known as Contras, and the leftist Sandinistas has been in effect since March. Negotiations on a permanent end to the seven-year-old civil war broke down in September. The Sandinistas suggested in September that future talks take place either in Managua, the Nicaraguan capital, or in Washington. The Reagan administration has trained, funded and supplied the rebels since 1981 in their war to overthrow the Sandinistas. The Contras proposed in their letter on Monday that negotiations with the Sandinista government begin Jan. 25 at the Washington headquarters of the Organization of American States. The proposed that OAS Secretary-General Joao Baena Suares, Roman Catholic Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo of Managua and the foreign ministers of the five Central American governments act as witnesses to the talks. The Resistance leaders said they were willing to call an end to rebel military operations in exchange for democratic reforms by the Sandinistas. They also called for effective measures by a verification commission to monitor Sandinista compliance with the peace plan, which provides for democratic guarantees. ``We consider it urgent that viable mechanisms be established to guarantee the independence of the (peace plan) verification commission,'' said the letter, signed by Resistance directors Adolfo Calero, Enrique Bermudez, Roberto Ferrey and Wilfredo Montalvan. The rebel message came after Honduran President Jose Azcona Hoyo confirmed he plans to attend a summit of Central American presidents scheduled for Jan. 15-16 in San Salvador, capital of El Salvador, to advance the stalled peace plan. The summit had been threatened by Nicaraguan claims that Honduras, a key U.S. ally, has been harboring and supporting the Contras. Most Contra fighters fled to Honduras after U.S. military aid expired in February. The International Court of Justice at The Hague, Netherlands, agreed last month to hear a formal Nicaraguan complaint against Honduras over the rebels' presence in that country. The World Court decision prompted Azcona Hoyo to threaten to boycott the summit unless Nicaragua dropped its case. Honduras would also boycott a preparatory meeting of Central American foreign ministers in Managua if Nicaragua didn't withdraw its complaint, he said. In addition, Azcona Hoyo threatened to file a countersuit against Nicaragua before the World Court charging Sandinista army troops with repeated incursions into Honduran territory. But Azcona Hoyo confirmed he would attend the summit during a nationally broadcast New Year's message on Saturday.
<irrelevant> Six men accused of funneling mercenaries and supplies to the Contra rebels argued before a judge Thursday they are innocent of Neutrality Act charges because the United States was waging war with Nicaragua. U.S. District Judge Norman Roettger, who also heard testimony on the so-called ``at peace'' issue Dec. 2 as part of a defense motion to dismiss the indictment, said he expected decide the matter within days. In the first half of the continuing pretrial hearing last month, the defendants argued that the Neutrality Act applies only to nations with which the United States is at peace. They contend the Reagan administration was running a de facto war against Nicaragua's Sandinista government at the time of their activities. Thursday's first defense witness was former top CIA analyst David MacMichael, who testified that during his 1981-83 tenure the agency organized and directed the Contras against Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government. ``I would say they (the CIA) had a military mission,'' MacMichael said. ``Not only combat, but support, supplies, transportation.'' MacMichael testified over prosecution objections. They said they feared he would disclose CIA secrets. The judge ruled he could speak on matters already in the public record. Outside court, defendant Mario Calero, brother of Contra leader Adolfo Calero, angrily accused the govenrment of harassing the indicted men while they await trial. He ridiculed the government's contention that the United States was at peace with the Sandinistas. ``When you mine harbors and run the show ... you are really not just de facto at war _ you're at war,'' Calero told reporters. ``Perhaps the United States has not been honest enough with itself to up and admit it.'' MacMichaels' testimony Thursday sought to back up Adolfo Calero's testimony last month that former national security adviser Oliver North was providing the rebels with $32 million at the same time the defendants were training anti-Sandinista mercenaries. The defendants also have submitted volumes of the Tower Report on the Iran-Contra affair. Assistant U.S. Attorney Eric Dubelier argued that no declared war existed and that North and others are facing indictment for their allegedly illegal activities. In Washington, Independent counsel Lawrence Walsh, citing ``difficult classified information problems,'' moved Thursday to dismiss the two central charges against North. Walsh said the move was prompted because the Reagan administration was refusing to allow the release of numerous classified documents North wants to introduce in his defense. The Miami group was indicted in June after charges of Reagan administration foot-dragging during the highly publicized investigation, which at one point became the focal point of congressional hearings. Opponents of aid to the Contras accused then-Attorney General Edwin Meese III of stalling the case because it threatened to uncover illegal activities by North. The Miami indictment accuses the group of violating the Neutrality Act by launching operations against the Sandinista government from U.S. soil from October 1984 to March 1985. The indictment accuses them of recruiting and training mercenaries to fight with Contras, supplying the rebels with equipment, leading them on expeditions, including one aimed at blowing up a Nicaraguan bridge, and violating firearms laws. The seven original defentants were Thomas Posey, head of the Alabama-based Civilian Materiel Assistance group; Mario Calero, a former supply manager for the rebels; Joe Adams, Adolfo Calero's former bodyguard; Jack Terrell, a former mercenary who turned against the effort and went to authorities; Maco Stewart, a wealthy former Texas businessman and state official who now lives in France; Jose Coutin, a Miami Cuban and former CMA liaison in Florida, and Alex Martinez, a conservative Cuban-American stockbroker. Adams pleaded guilty, and Roettger fined him $50 and sentenced him to a day of probation. The other six defendants continue to fight the charges, which could result in federal prison sentences of up to eight years on the Neutrality Act violations.
<irrelevant> Military authorities have arrested five junior officers who urged the military not to meddle in politics and charged them with violating the military code by engaging in political activity. Dissidents and opposition parties backed the officers, who were arrested Monday, and demanded they be exonerated. The Defense Ministry said Capt. Lee Dong-kyun and four colleagues from an army engineering battalion near Seoul issued a statement Thursday at the Korea National Council of Churches, calling on the military to stay out of politics. They also were charged with accusing some ``political officers'' of disgracing the military's image by meddling in political affairs in the past. The officers were charged with taking collective action to express their political view. Conviction could mean two years in prison. South Korean military codes strictly ban political activity by soldiers. The military has played a strong role in South Korean politics since the late President Park Chung-hee, then an army general, staged a coup and toppled a civilian government in 1960. In 1980, Chun Doo-hwan, a former army general, seized power with military backing. The ex-president has been accused of corruption and other abuses since he stepped down last February. President Roh Tae-woo, also a former army general and once close ally of Chun, has promised to end military intervention in politics and to introduce complete democracy.
<irrelevant> Filipinos sat fixated before their television sets as troops poured automatic fire and rockets into a military camp. Was the target Communist or Moslem insurgents? No. It was the police. Later, the hottest topic of newspaper and broadcast commentators was a report that hundreds of Uzi submachine guns and Galil rifles were being imported into a country already awash with weapons. The importer was the House of Representatives. The two episodes illustrate the nature of Philippine society, where a Westernized, democratic veneer covers an often violent land of ``Dodge City'' social norms. They also underscore the challenge facing President Corazon Aquino in trying to build a modern, progressive nation in a land still locked into corrupt and violent ways. The United States, which maintains six military bases in the archipelago nation and is committed to helping build democracy in the Philippines, has a substantial stake in her success. President Reagan this month proposed doubling aid to the Philippines to $649.4 million at a time when assistance to other nations is being held in check or reduced. Continued weaknesses and shortcomings in the 165,000-member armed forces were highlighted by the three-day takeover of the regional headquarters of the Philippine Constabulary in Zamboanga City, 560 miles south of Manila. On Jan. 5, about 15 Moslem policemen and their supporters, angry over plans to charge them in a 1984 killing, managed to seize control of the garrison and killed the commander and his chief of staff. The renegades then held out for two days against a furious military assault by nearly 1,000 troops after the government refused further negotiations. By the time the garrison was secured, 21 people, all but two of them renegades, were dead. But the renegades' leader, Rizal Alih, escaped to the humiliation of Chief of Staff Gen. Renato de Villa, who ordered the assault. Meanwhile, the regional headquarters was destroyed, becoming the second major garrison destroyed in 18 months of military operations against dissident soldiers or police. The general staff headquarters in Manila was gutted during the August 1987 coup attempt by former Lt. Col. Gregorio Honasan. No major headquarters has been destroyed in clashes with Communist or Moslem rebels since Mrs. Aquino took office in 1986. Most Manila television stations, which rarely report events outside the capital, dispatched crews to Zamboanga. Dramatic footage of soldiers battling police shocked residents of the capital, many of whom are largely insulated from violence in the countryide. ``The inconclusive result is now viewed by a shocked nation as using a sledgehammer to swat a fly,'' wrote columnist Jesus Bigornia in The Manila Bulletin. In the aftermath of the Zamboanga incident, de Villa has ordered commanders to weed out ``scalawags'' from the police and military ranks. Yet many Filipinos are skeptical this crackdown on lawlessness in the ranks will be any more effective than those that came before. Last year, Cicero Campos, chairman of the National Police Commision, said his agency received an average of 1,500 complaints a year of criminal activity by some of the country's 52,000 policemen. He admitted the figure was the ``tip of the iceberg,'' and few of the complaints result in prosecution or dismissal. ``What do the authorities do about these criminal elements dressed in law enforcement uniforms,'' wrote columnist Ninez Cacho-Olivares in the newspaper BusinessWorld. ``Do they wait until these criminal elements storm a building or an army camp before moving in on them?'' Less dramatic _ but equally ominous _ were reports in Manila newspapers that the House of Representatives was importing up to 600 Uzi submachine guns and Galil rifles to provide ``security'' for its some 200 members. Rep. Renato Unico, a member of the House defense committee, confirmed the reports and said the Israeli-made weapons had been ordered after the chamber's security force ran away during the August 1987 coup attempt. Unico, dubbed ``Uzico'' by radio commentators, said congressmen needed the weapons for protection during visits to remote districts, where Communist and Moslem insurgents operate. But the idea of congressional security guards wielding high-powered firearms, paid for by tax money, raised the specter of a return to the ``private armies,'' which Filipino politicians traditionally used to intimidate opponents and guarantee their re-election. Mrs. Aquino had promised to disband such ``private armies,'' which were believed to number nearly 300 when she came to power. ``Let's face it, political bouts are settled as much by blood and bullets as by ballots,'' wrote the Philippine Daily Inquirer in an editorial. The newspaper Malaya said the report ominously suggests that despite promises of a new era in Philippine politics, ``the political warlordism of Philippine politics, with all its negative connotations, is here to stay.''
<irrelevant> An attorney for John Hull, an American charged with drug and weapons trafficking, said she will ask the judge in the case to move proceedings to Hull's hometown in northern Costa Rica. Hull, who has been linked to an illegal arms-supply network aiding the Nicaraguan rebels, was arrested at his ranch last Thursday. Officials said he also was being investigated on charges of spying for the U.S.-backed rebels, known as Contras. Attorney Elda Zuniga said Hull, who suffers from diabetes, became ill on Monday and was sent to the infirmary at the San Sebastian Jail, where he is being held. The jail is in San Jose, the capital. Hull's condition improved and he was back in his cell Tuesday, Ms. Zuniga said. She did not say why Hull became ill. Ms. Zuniga said she will ask Judge Leovigildo Rodriguez of the 4th Federal District Court to order the proceedings moved to San Carlos, about 105 miles north of San Jose. Hull's ranch is in nearby Los Chiles. The judge will decide on the request during an open hearing scheduled for Friday, Ms. Zuniga said. The Office of Judicial Investigations acted after residents near Hull's ranch denounced activities by Hull that they believed could endanger relations with Costa Rica and Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government, an official with the office said. The Attorney General's Office formally charged Hull on Friday. Hull, about 69 and a former Indiana resident, has lived in Costa Rica for 20 years. Ms. Zuniga said he became a naturalized Costa Rican citizen eight years ago, when he moved to Los Chiles. Ms. Zuniga said she would move for dismissal of the drug charges because they were based on alleged incidents that occurred in 1984, about three years before Costa Rica's legislature approved an anti-narcotics trafficking law upon which the prosecution is based. ``According to our Constitution, Article 34, no citizen can be accused of things that occurred before 1987, the year in which the legislative assembly approved the narcotics law,'' she said. Hull has denied any drug trafficking connections. He said in 1986 that authorities twice raided his home in unsuccessful attempts to find evidence of gun running and drug smuggling. Hull has acknowledged permitting the Contras to use his ranch property for their activities before the Iran-Contra case broke in 1986. In the case, Reagan administration officials sent arms to Iran for money to be sent to the Contras. Witnesses testifying before Congress on illegal arms shipments to the Contras have said Hull's ranch was a way station for gun smugglers and cocaine traffickers. Hull was not among 13 men indicted in September in Miami on charges of running an illegal arms network for the Contras. Reports said Hull was granted immunity by the special prosecutor in the case.
</top>
<top>
<num> 63
<title> Machine Translation
<relevant> The voice of authority speaks with a synthesized tongue. The Language Master 4000 Speaking Dictionary from Franklin Computer Corporation will tell you what it means, how to spell it, and how to say it. Small dictionary-thesaurus or spell-checking computers, often with extra calculating and storage functions, make up a new category of electronic gadgets aimed at students, writers, and other language-conscious consumers. They range from a $60 spell checker offered by Seiko to the Language Master, which sells for about $400. They come basically in two sizes: the larger such as the Language Master or Smith Corona's Spell-Right 200 are about the size of a paperback book, while smaller models, like the Smith Corona Spell-Right 310P or the Seiko WP 4000 fit in the palm of the hand, about the size of a snapshot. All feature typewriter keyboard layouts. The Language Master, weighing just under 12 ounces, has a frog-like, synthesized voice. It includes a dictionary, thesaurus and phonetic spelling corrector. It can distinguish between identically spelled words with different meanings and pronunciations. The synthesized voice tells you the difference between ``desert'' (last syllable accent, verb), meaning to abandon, and ``desert`` (first syllable accent, noun), meaning dry, barren region. If set to talking, the synthesized voice could recite its entire vocabulary in more than 21 hours of uninterrupted speech. It contains over 274,000 definitions and spellings of more than 83,000 words from Merriam-Webster's dictionary. The thesaurus has 487,000 synonyms for more than 40,000 entries from Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Thesaurus. Enter a word on the keyboard, and its various thesaurus definitions appear on your computer screen. Say you want to look up ``stirring.'' Write it in, and the computer returns properly inflected synonyms _ ``arousing, awakening, bestirring.'' Then press the ``say'' key, and you'll hear the word pronounced electronically. The program has an advanced vocabulary-building tutorial that includes 3,300 words often found on SAT, GRE and GMAT exams. It uses the SAT word list in a variety of word games. Smith Corona's Spell-Right 200, selling for about $160, is a less expensive version of the larger format. It covers 100,000 dictionary entries, has a thesaurus, a spell function that corrects misspelled words, provides synonyms, and alerts the user to commonly confused words, displaying their definitions. It has a built-in calculator which can solve math problems, a foreign currency converter, and address book storage capacity of 6,000 characters. The unit also has crossword entries, works out anagrams, and offers a word-guessing game called Hangman. The company's two pocket-size checkes, the Spell-Right 300P and 310P, priced at about $140 and $150 respectively, have many of the same functions in units with displays located in fold-down covers, making them look like miniature laptop computers. The 300P checks spelling, while the 310P additionally provides definitions for 50,000 words and has a word game called Skill that randomly flashes words followed by their definitions. Both have thesaurus, calculator and word game functions. Seiko's WP-4000 in the smaller format is a dictionary-thesaurus with 90,000 definitions, 500,000 synonyms and a 95,000-word spell checker, based on Roget's thesaurus and the American Heritage dictionary. One of its keys lets users scroll through the memory. This unit sells for around $185. Also in the Seiko line are the WP-1000, a spell checker with an 85,000-word vocabulary, selling for $60, and the WP-3000 spell checker-thesaurus with a 170,000-word vocabulary and 240,000 synonyms, priced at about $135. The instrument format has been extended to foreign language translation by Seiko, which offers four bilingual translators. The TR-1100 (French) and TR-1300 (Spanish) each have 40,000-word vocabularies while larger models TR-1200 (French) and TR-1400 (Spanish) have 80,000-word vocabularies. These pocket-size cards can translate both to and from English. If the user misspells a word, the unit will guess at the translation, adding a question mark on the display. A comma will appear if there or multiple meanings or synonyms. The translators have scrolling and word locating functions, as well as a backspace key for erasing errors. Each unit operates as a calculator and currency exchanger. The smaller models sell for around $90, and the larger for about $120.
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. missed out on the personal computer boom, but it hopes a big product announcement next week will keep it abreast of the next wave in computing, desktop workstations. Officials of the world's second biggest computer maker said Wednesday they would introduce advanced workstations along with new software and industry-standard personal computers in a major news conference on Tuesday. ``It's probably the most significant desktop announcement we've ever made,'' Donald McInnis, vice president of Digital's engineering systems group, said in a telephone interview. Digital, the minicomputer giant based in Maynard, Mass., lost out on billions of dollars in potential revenue from personal computers because its founder and president, Kenneth Olsen, underestimated the importance of the machines. The company kept building bigger and more powerful clusters of minicomputers to compete with International Business Machines Corp., its bigger rival. Two previous attempts to catch up in the PC business failed: the Rainbow, which did not run industry-standard software, and the Vaxmate, which was too expensive. In its third attempt, Digital is showing some humility by selling personal computers made for it by Tandy Corp. according to Digital specifications. ``It's stating for the world that, `Yes, we're going to be in the low end of the market,''' said Sonny Monosson, editor of the Monosson Report on DEC and IBM. In the smaller but faster-growing workstation business, where Digital already has the second biggest share of the world market despite selling relatively slow machines, the company plans two lines of fast and relatively cheap entries that should expand its market share. Workstations are speedy desktop computers capable of displaying intricate graphics and are used primarily by scientists, engineers and other technical professionals. As a sign of the importance Digital attaches to workstations, the company will break from tradition by selling one line incapable of running programs written for its own Vax VMS operating system. The new line will run only programs written for Ultrix, Digital's version of the Unix operating system. For the new workstation, Digital had to choose between speed and compatibility, and it chose speed by using a microprocessor supplied by Mips Computer Systems Inc. that cannot handle VMS instructions. In the software area, Digital scored a major but little-noticed victory last week when the Open Software Foundation, a standards group, selected its technology as the standard for the means by which programs appear in ``windows'' on a computer screen. Technology from Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. was selected as the standard for the look and feel, or surface trimmings, of the screen presentation. The decision on standards should help simplify life for computer users and programmers. ``Until now we've had chaos and anarchy in terms of standards at the desktop,'' McInnis said. The emphasis on desktop computers is a return to Digital's roots. The company was founded in 1957 to build small computers better suited to individual users than the powerful but complicated mainframe computers dominant at the time. Analysts differed on how Digital's new workstations would fare against the competition of Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc. and others. ``They overtook and passed Apollo in '88. With this new line of products I think they're going to overtake Sun,'' said Jonathan Cohler, editor-in-chief of Digital Review, an independent weekly newspaper based in Boston. But Russell Crabs, an analyst for SoundView Financial Group in Stamford, Conn., said the high-powered workstation will not take off right away because there is not enough software written for Digital's Ultrix. ``I think it's a defensive move, primarily against Sun,'' he said. Digital will trumpet the new products in a press conference in Littleton, Mass., and other presentations that day and the next in Santa Clara, Calif.; London; Paris; Copenhagen, Denmark; Sydney, Australia; and Tokyo.
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. rolled out a long-expected line of computer workstations and personal computers Tuesday, including the first high-powered machine that does not belong to its Vax line. Analysts said the most significant product was the DecStation 3100, a fast workstation for scientists, engineers and financial analysts that will compete with models from Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and others. The DecStation 3100 is a breakthrough because of its speed and because it cannot run software written for Digital's Vax computer line. It runs a version of Unix, an industry-standard operating system. ``Up until this point they have maintained that the Vax architecture is the be-all and end-all of the computer world,'' said Gregory Cline, a senior analyst at the Yankee Group in Boston. ``I think it's a smart move,'' Cline said. The DecStation 3100, which Digital billed as ``the world's fastest desktop workstation,'' begins at $11,900. Cline and other analysts said Digital's leadership claim is probably valid, but said Digital could itself be leapfrogged soon by companies such as Sun. Digital also introduced a line of slower workstations that do run its Vax operating system and a line of industry-standard personal computers made to its design by Tandy Corp. However, the personal computers are not capable of using DEC Windows, so programs that run on the PCs will not look the same as programs running on other Digital computers.
<irrelevant> The Consumer Electronics Show drew the curtain on its winter show Tuesday after unveiling a dazzling array of electronic gadgetry, releasing buoyant sales figures and fielding an olive branch from the movie industry. ``Exhibitors tell us this was the most crowded show they've ever seen,'' CES spokeswoman Cynthia Saraniti said. ``They're all happy. They're all writing business. They think it's been a tremendous success.'' Ms. Saraniti said members of the industry see 1989 as ``a very good year. The exhibitors are extremely optimistic.'' The health of the industry is a reflection on the economy in general since most of those exhibiting their wares here depend on the discretionary income of consumers. Industry officials are predicting $31.645 billionin factory sales in consumer electronics goods in 1989, up 5 percent from 1988 figures. A record 1,430 exhibitors spent four days touting wares ranging from camcorders and computers to TVs, video games and adult flicks. Attendance for the show is expected to range between 80,000 and 90,000, Ms. Saraniti said. Final figures are due Wednesday. Higher attendance figures have been announced in past years, but Ms. Saraniti said this is the first year actual attendance has been checked against pre-registration. Products at the 1989 show covered 776,000 square feet of display space _ an area the size of 19 football fields. Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, told the convention Sunday that the VCR industry, once viewed as a virus by the movie industry, now is seen as a tonic. He called for ``cooperative collaboration'' between the movie and electronics industry, and said the two should join in the fight against film pirating. A major focus at this year's show was home automation, which allows home electronics products and utilities to ``talk'' to each other. The new system has been described as a ``communications pathway throughout the home.'' One scenario for the new system would allow a homeowner to check electronically his or her home security system at night, locking doors, turning off lights, turning down the thermostat _ all from controls in the bedroom. ``We've developed a language which allows your appliances to speak with and control one another,'' CES spokesman Tom Lauterback said. ``Items such as cellular phones will allow you to start your appliances at any time, any place,'' Lauterback said. Another highlight of this year's show was the growing home office equipment industry. CES officials say 20 million Americans are working out of their homes, bringing a boom in a wide range of products from facsimile machines to telephones, copiers and other equipment. Industry officials say more than 26 million telephones were sold in the United States last year. Murata, which hopes to capture 18 percent of the growing fax market, showcased a number of machines _ pushing a model selling for $899. Ricoh featured a hand-held copier, the MC50, that scans the original and copies any point desired. A companion interface module turns the MC50 into a facsimile transceiver, with the unit acting as a scanner for the original material being transmitted or received via telephone. Smith Corona featured a word processor with a feature known as Address Merge, which enables the user to merge a list of names and addresses with a standard letter. Franklin Computer featured an electronic dictionary, thesaurus and phonetic spelling corrector including more than 83,000 words. Known as the Language Master 4000, the user enters a word the way it sounds. The unit then displays the definition of the word, the parts of speech, hyphenation points and inflected forms of the word. The unit also pronounces the word. Health and fitness continued to be a major interest at the show. Casio introduced what it called the world's first electronic pedometer. The watch is touted to give accurate readings of caloric consumption during workouts. Casio says that unlike mechanical pedometers, the new EXW50 will automatically adjust to the type of exercise being performed, such as jogging, aerobics, etc. Audio-video was again a big draw, with industry officials predicting Americans would buy 20 million color TV sets in 1989. Companies went to great lengths to gain an edge with dealers and distributors who will be putting their products on display shelves this year. Pioneer showcased a $10,000 car audio-video system in a $295,000 hand-built Gambella Avalanche sports car. Tyco introduced Hot Lixx, a computerized electric guitar that allows players to use a series of buttons in lieu of strings, creating their own musical sounds. Acclaim introduced a series of video games including Airwolf, after the television series, and Nightrider, which involves ``driving'' a car to 20 different cities. Atari announced it would bring out 20 new game titles in the first quarter of 1989. Nintendo Entertainment and Broderbund Software introduced U-FORCE, a video game controller that eliminates all physical contact between player and machine such as the traditional joysticks or buttons. Saitek Industries, which has an electronic chess game, revived another old standard, introducing an electronic checkers game.
<irrelevant> Dexter the robot hand helps deaf-blind people listen and a ``talking glove'' lets deaf-mutes speak, but blind people may find their growing independence threatened by computer graphics, scientists said Monday. A gaze-operated computer keyboard that lets paralyzed people use their eyes and brain waves to write, talk, move their wheelchairs and turn on appliances also could be commercially available to the disabled within a few years, the researchers said. Details of several new computerized devices to assist the disabled were outlined during the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. So were some problems. Voice synthesizers and braille word displays gave blind computer users ``full competitiveness within most educational and employment settings'' during the 1980s, said Lawrence Scadden, director of the Electronic Industries Foundation's Rehabilitation Engineering Center in Washington. But ``increased use of graphically displayed information may threaten newly acquired independence and productivity for these individuals,'' he added. Unlike the code used to transmit letters and numbers, the method by which sophisticated computers ``draw'' pictures, charts and even text on display screens isn't readily converted into braille or a computer's synthesized voice, said Scadden, who is blind. He urged the industry to develop machines to let the blind hear or feel such information. Dexter, a five-fingered robot hand to help deaf-blind people ``hear,'' may be commercially available next year for under $5,500, said co-developer Deborah Gilden, with the Smith-Kettlewell Rehabilitation Engineer Center in San Francisco. The mechanical hand ``is able to translate information originating from a keyboard, modem, computer or closed-caption TV decoder to hand and finger motions that correspond to the one-hand fingerspelling alphabet,'' said David Jaffe of the Palo Alto Veterans Administration Medical Center, which helped develop Dexter. A deaf person ``listens'' to Dexter by placing his or her fingers against the mechanical fingers. Each of the robot hand's positions represent a single letter. Stanford University engineer James Kramer said he is seeking a manufacturer for his ``talking glove,'' which will cost about $1,500 and let deaf-mute and deaf-mute-blind people speak by using their fingers to spell. Wires lead from the glove to a microcomputer, which match the person's finger motions to letters of the alphabet. A speech synthesizer converts the letters to spoken words that come from a small speaker hanging from a deaf person's neck, Kramer said. Hearing people can respond by typing on a hand-held computer keyboard, which then can send the words either into a braille display worn on a blind-deaf-mute person's belt or into a small display screen a sighted deaf-mute can wear like a wristwatch. Smith-Kettlewell's Erich Sutter developed the gaze-controlled keyboard for people who are so paralyzed or disabled they can move little more than their eyes. With electrodes attached to or implanted in the scalp, the paralyzed person stares at a screen that is divided into rectangles, each containing a letter, number or common word. As the paralyzed person stares at the desired letter or word, a variety of tiny lights also flash in the rectangle. For every letter or word, the lights create a unique electrical wave pattern in the person's brain. The electrodes feed those brain waves to a computer, which converts them back into words, which then can be displayed on a screen, synthesized into a voice, or used to move a wheelchair, dial a phone or turn on lights, radio, television and heat, Gilden said. Jaffe said a new wheelchair lets the paralyzed steer by making slight head motions that are detected by an ultrasound distance-measuring machine. The disabled person's head becomes like the joystick control on a video game, he said, adding the $4,000 wheelchair should be in production soon. A new federal law will provide limited money to help some disabled people acquire such high-tech machines, but they and their relatives must work for programs to make the devices more widely available, said Jacquelyn Brand of the National Special Education Alliance.
<irrelevant> The world's biggest library hasn't escaped the growing epidemic of computer viruses, according to a computer specialist for the Library of Congress. Glenn McLoughlin, a staff member with the Science Policy Research Division of the library's Congressional Research Service, disclosed Thursday that a virus was spotted and killed out of the main catalog computer system last fall before it could inflict any damage to data files. ``It was identified before it could spread or permanently erase any data,'' he told a delegation of Japanese computer specialists touring this country to assess the virus problem. The Library of Congress, with a staff of about 5,000 people, annually receives more than 1 million books, magazines, newspapers and other items from around the globe. It has a variety of computer systems to help handle the massive information base. McLoughlin said the virus was found after personnel logging onto computers at the library noticed they had substantially less computer memory space to work with than they had expected. The virus apparently entered the system through a piece of software obtained from the University of Maryland, McLoughlin said. ``We don't know whether it was a student at Maryland, or whether Maryland had gotten it from somebody else,'' he said. ``That was simply the latest point of departure for the software.'' Viruses are generally small strings of computer code that can be stealthily inserted into programs, causing various problems including destruction of data and sudden clogging of a computer's memory with thousands of copies of the virus. Another computer security specialist addressing Thursday's briefing said the world may be heading toward a catastrophic computer failure unless more effective measures are taken to combat viruses. Professor Lance J. Hoffman of George Washington University likened the virus which struck the Pentagon's computer network last November to a frightening nuclear accident, and said it ``could have had very disastrous consequences for our society.'' ``It wasn't Chernobyl yet, it was the Three Mile Island _ it woke a lot of people up,'' Hoffman said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 64
<title> Hostage-Taking
<relevant> A month after his kidnappers said they would kill him, the fate of Marine Lt. Col. William R. Higgins, who turns 44 on Sunday, remains a mystery. The last word on the American, kidnapped in south Lebanon 11 months ago, came Dec.12 when his pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem captors said they had sentenced him to death for spying for Israel. No body has been found. The Organization for the Oppressed on Earth, which claimed responsibility for Higgins' abduction, has also claimed responsibility for kidnapping 12 Lebanese Jews since 1984 and has said it killed eight of them. Four bodies have been found. However, a Shiite source, familiar with the thinking of pro-Iranian factions, said he did not believe Higgins has been slain. ``He's too valuable a card to be wasted,'' said the source, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``He's an American officer who had held sensitive posts in the United States. He also served with the United Nations. This makes him an American national security interest and an international interest,'' the source said. Higgins is one of 15 foreigners, including nine Americans, held hostage in Lebanon. The hostage held longest is American journalist Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, who was kidnapped March 16, 1985. Higgins, of Danville, Ky., led a 76-man U.N. military observer group monitoring the Lebanon-Israel border when he was kidnapped Feb. 17, 1988. Two days later, the Organization of the Oppressed on Earth issued a statement claiming the abduction and charging that Higgins spied for the ``satanic CIA.'' The United States and the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon, to which Higgins' observer group was attached, denied he was a spy. The kidnappers originally said they would release Higgins if Israel withdrew from territory it occupies in south Lebanon; if all Lebanese and Palestinians held by Israel and its militia allies were freed; and if the United States halted alleged involvement in efforts to crush a Palestinian uprising in Israeli-occupied territories. Five days after the kidnapping, the group released a 70-second videotape of Higgins in which he repeated his captors' demands. On Feb.25, about 10,000 people demonstrated in Moslem west Beirut chanting ``death to Higgins.'' The pro-Iranian group Hezbollah, believed to be the parent organization for Shiite factions holding most of hostages, declared its support for Higgins' kidnapping April 11. Hezbollah's chief spokesman, Sheik Ibrahim el-Amin, told a Beirut news conference that Higgins was ``not kidnapped, but detained.'' ``We haven't been involved in his detention, but we support it,'' he said. In a statement April 21, the kidnappers dropped their offer to free Higgins and said he would be stand trial ``for the crimes he has committed.'' It accused him of taking part in ``American conspiracies'' against Moslems and supervising ``a Pentagon team to combat Lebanese and Palestinian Islamic organizations.'' The Organization of the Oppressed on Earth said in a statement issued in December, ``We have issued the irrevocable sentence to execute this American spy.''
<relevant> A Shiite Moslem cleric said in an interview published Saturday there are signs British hostages in Lebanon will be freed soon but that U.S. captives won't go free until the United States makes concessions. President Bush said Saturday in Washington the United States would make no concessions to free the hostages. ``We are not going to escalate the currency of holding Americans hostage,'' he said. The fundamentalist cleric, Sheik Sadek Mousawi, said the United States should meet Iranian conditions for freeing the American hostages, according to the interview published by the Beirut magazine An-Nahar Arab and International. The magazine quoted Mousawi as saying, ``I would like to assert that there are good indications of an imminent release of the British hostages as a result of the Iranian-British rapprochement.'' Britain and Iran agreed Dec. 9 to restore full diplomatic ties, ending a 19-month break that followed the arrest of an Iranian diplomat in England on shoplifting charges. Three Britons are among the 15 foreign hostages in Lebanon. They are Anglican church envoy Terry Waite, who disappeared Jan. 20, 1987; journalist John McCarthy, kidnapped April 17, 1986; and educator Brian Keenan, a dual British-Irish national abducted April 11, 1986. Also missing is Alec Collett, a British journalist who was working for the U.N. Relief and Works agency when he disappeared March 25, 1985. An Islamic group claims to have killed him, but no body was found. Mousawi heads a small group called The Islamic Movement, which seeks to set up an Islamic republic in Lebanon patterned after the Iranian regime of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Mousawi's group is allied with the Iranian-backed Hezbollah, or Party of God, an umbrella organization for pro-Iranian factions believed holding most of the hostages. The magazine quoted Mousawi as saying the United States would have to make concessions to win freedom for the nine American hostages. ``If America wants its hostages, then it has to respond to the Iranian demands so that Iran would give the advice (to the hostage holders) to free the American hostages,'' he said. Tehran has demanded release of $10 billion in Iranian assets frozen in the United States as a precondition for its aid in releasing the American hostages. The American captives include Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, who is the foreigner held longest in Lebanon. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985. Mousawi said Iran could exert influence on the captors, even though the kidnappings were ordered by ``Lebanese personalities'' and carried out by Lebanese without intervention from Iran. He added, ``But it is normal for any Moslem irrespective of how far he is geographically from Iran to be influenced by the advice of the officials in Iran.''
<relevant> Irish Ambassador Patrick McCabe said today he hopes some foreign hostages held in Lebanon will be released soon. McCabe, who is based in Iraq, has been in Lebanon since Saturday trying to verify news reports that Irish hostage Brian Keenan was about to be freed. ``I hope that what was said about the hostages ... might prove to inaugurate positive developments in regards to the hostages before too long,'' he said. McCabe spoke to reporters after a 30-minute meeting in Moslem west Beirut with Salah Staitieh, chief of the Foreign Ministry's political department. He refused to comment on the talks. Nabih Berri, who heads the Shiite Moslem Amal militia, predicted a rapid release of the hostages in a statement to reporters in Damascus on Monday. He spoke after a truce between his pro-Syrian militia and the Iranian-backed Hezbollah ended their nine-month war in south Beirut and southern Lebanon. The Amal-Hezbollah accord was sponsored by Syria and Iran. ``The peace pact did not refer directly to the hostages, but I am sure that this agreement would help the release of hostages as quickly as possible,'' Berri said. Amal is not involved in hostage-taking. Hezbollah is believed to be the umbrella for pro-Iranian fundamentalist factions holding most of the 15 foreigners missing in Lebanon. McCabe said the Irish government was ``in touch with all the governments that might be in a position to render assistance in terms of securing the early release.'' Keenan, 38, was kidnapped April 11, 1986 as he walked to the American University of Beirut where he taught English. No group has claimed his abduction. McCabe said Keenan's kidnappers have not contacted him. ``No organization has indicated who should get in touch with me or with other representatives of the Irish government on this subject,'' McCabe said. In addition to Keenan, who also holds British citizenship, the captives in Lebanon are nine Americans, three Britons, an Italian and a Belgian. The hostage held longest is Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985.
<relevant> Five Lebanese publications predicted Saturday that some foreign hostages held in Lebanon will be freed soon. One magazine said two of the nine missing Americans will be released. Also Saturday, Irish Ambassador Patrick McCabe, who spent one week in Lebanon trying to verify reports hostage Brian Keenan might be released, said there was ``a distinct possibility'' Keenan would be freed. The reports marked the first time several Lebanese publications have simultaneously carried nearly identical articles about the possible release of foreign captives. The reports came shortly after a top Iranian official and a Shiite Moslem leader predicted a breakthrough in the hostage problem. The An-Nahar Arab and International weekly said the Iranian-backed Hezbollah has ``decided to release two American captives as a goodwill gesture.'' It gave no names. The magazine, based in Christian east Beirut, quoted an unidentified Hezbollah official as saying: ``The scenario is being set for the release.'' The brief report did not elaborate. Hezbollah, made up of Shiite Moslem zealots, is believed to be the umbrella organization for several groups holding hostages. There are 15 foreigners missing in Lebanon. In addition to the nine Americans and Keenan, who holds both Irish and British citizenship, there are three Britons, an Italian and a Belgian. The longest held is Terry A. Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for The Associated Press, who was kidnapped March 16, 1985. The leftist daily As-Safir, which has close ties with the Syrian army command in Lebanon, said: ``Diplomatic information speaks of the possible release of some (foreign) hostages in the next two weeks.'' The weekly Ash-Shiraa said the hostage issue ``has been put on a hot burner.'' Its brief report said without elaborating: ``This could result in releasing them ... in the light of a decision to this effect adopted by regional powers interested in this case.'' The independent An-Nahar and conservative Ad-Diyar dailies both said a peace pact reached Monday in Damascus between Hezbollah and Amal, the rival pro-Syrian Shiite militia, also aims at securing the release of foreign captives. The pact, sponsored by Syria and Iran, halted a nine-month war between the rival militias. ``Informed sources believe that the basic aim of the Amal-Hezbollah accord is to work on the release of foreign captives held in Lebanon,'' said An-Nahar, Lebanon's most prestigious newspaper. The report did not elaborate. Ad-Diyar quoted an unidentified official as saying the Amal-Hezbollah accord ``could result in the handing over of some foreign hostages to the Syrians.'' Syria is the main power broker in Lebanon with 40,000 troops deployed in predominantly Moslem areas. In the past, some foreign captives were set free in Syrian-controlled sectors of Lebanon, and the Syrians took credit for their release. The Irish ambassador, who spent one week in Lebanon trying to verify reports about Keenan's possible release, returned to Iraq on Saturday. Before departing he told reporters: ``I leave with the impression that the release of Brian Keenan before long remains a distinct possibility.'' Keenan, a teacher from Belfast, was kidnapped April 11, 1986 in Beirut's Moslem sector. No group has claimed his abduction. McCabe said he would return to Lebanon ``in coming weeks or sooner'' if necessary.
<relevant> Syrian officials met on Wednesday with the sister of American journalist Terry A. Anderson, the hostage held longest in Lebanon, and told her they had no indication any captives would be freed soon. Peggy Say and three other American women arrived Tuesday night for what she called a one-week personal visit not linked to any current effort to free Anderson, 41, chief Middle East correspondent of The Associated Press. He was kidnapped March 16, 1985 in Beirut. Speculation has arisen again in Beirut that some of the 15 foreigners held hostage, nine of whom are Americans, soon would be freed. Most are believed held by fundamentalist Shiite Moslems loyal to Iran. On Wednesday, Mrs. Say met with Zouheir Jannan, director of the Information Ministry, who told her President Hafez Assad's government considers the hostage issue ``a cause for Syria.'' He also informed her the situation was sensitive, ``and we have nothing to tell you,'' according to officials who spoke on condition of anonymity. Meetings with other senior officials, including Information Minister Mohammed Salman, are expected before Mrs. Say's scheduled departure departure Feb. 16. ``My visit coincides with my birthday Feb.15 and also with the third anniversary of my father's death,'' said Mrs. Say, who last visited Syria in 1986. Glenn Anderson died of cancer Feb. 15, 1986. Anderson's brother Glenn also died of cancer on June 7 that year. As far as is known, Anderson is not aware of the deaths. Mrs. Say said she recently received a ``very nice, comforting message'' from Sheik Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah, spiritual leader of Hezbollah, or Party of God, which is believed to be an umbrella group for Shiites holding hostages. ``I'd like to thank him personally if I could,'' she said, but did not reveal the message. Fadlallah now is in Tehran. Syrian officials said they would arrange a meeting if Fadlallah came to Damascus on his way back to Lebanon. Without elaborating, Mrs. Say said she received a similar message from Assad and ``I wish to thank President Assad for all his efforts.'' Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon, has been instrumental in freeing several Western hostages and has promised to help secure the release of the others. ``I'm not here to meet anybody in particular, but I'm open to see those who want to talk to me,'' said Mrs. Say. She said she may go to Beirut, noting that she has a Lebanese visa and a special State Department exemption from a U.S. ban on Americans visiting Lebanon.
<irrelevant> Nicaraguan rebel leaders on Monday told Costa Rican President Oscar Arias they are willing to attend peace talks in Washington with the leftist Nicaraguan government. ``We have the honor of confirming to you, Mr. President, our willingness to reach a political solution to the conflict and that we have decided to accept Washington as the city where negotiations with the Sandinista government should continue,'' the leadership of the Nicaraguan Resistance, the rebels' political organization, told Arias in a letter. Arias is the author of a 1987 peace plan for Central America that calls, in part, for negotiated solutions to civil conflicts in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. A tenuous cease-fire agreement between the U.S.-backed Nicaraguan rebels, known as Contras, and the leftist Sandinistas has been in effect since March. Negotiations on a permanent end to the seven-year-old civil war broke down in September. The Sandinistas suggested in September that future talks take place either in Managua, the Nicaraguan capital, or in Washington. The Reagan administration has trained, funded and supplied the rebels since 1981 in their war to overthrow the Sandinistas. The Contras proposed in their letter on Monday that negotiations with the Sandinista government begin Jan. 25 at the Washington headquarters of the Organization of American States. The proposed that OAS Secretary-General Joao Baena Suares, Roman Catholic Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo of Managua and the foreign ministers of the five Central American governments act as witnesses to the talks. The Resistance leaders said they were willing to call an end to rebel military operations in exchange for democratic reforms by the Sandinistas. They also called for effective measures by a verification commission to monitor Sandinista compliance with the peace plan, which provides for democratic guarantees. ``We consider it urgent that viable mechanisms be established to guarantee the independence of the (peace plan) verification commission,'' said the letter, signed by Resistance directors Adolfo Calero, Enrique Bermudez, Roberto Ferrey and Wilfredo Montalvan. The rebel message came after Honduran President Jose Azcona Hoyo confirmed he plans to attend a summit of Central American presidents scheduled for Jan. 15-16 in San Salvador, capital of El Salvador, to advance the stalled peace plan. The summit had been threatened by Nicaraguan claims that Honduras, a key U.S. ally, has been harboring and supporting the Contras. Most Contra fighters fled to Honduras after U.S. military aid expired in February. The International Court of Justice at The Hague, Netherlands, agreed last month to hear a formal Nicaraguan complaint against Honduras over the rebels' presence in that country. The World Court decision prompted Azcona Hoyo to threaten to boycott the summit unless Nicaragua dropped its case. Honduras would also boycott a preparatory meeting of Central American foreign ministers in Managua if Nicaragua didn't withdraw its complaint, he said. In addition, Azcona Hoyo threatened to file a countersuit against Nicaragua before the World Court charging Sandinista army troops with repeated incursions into Honduran territory. But Azcona Hoyo confirmed he would attend the summit during a nationally broadcast New Year's message on Saturday.
<irrelevant> The family of a Belfast man held hostage in Beirut marked his 1,000th day in captivity with a vigil outside city hall. Brian Keenan, a teacher with dual British and Irish nationality, was kidnapped April 11, 1986 on his way to the American University in Beirut, where he had just begun to work. ``If we forget, the world forgets,'' said his sister, Brenda Gillham, who stood outside the city hall with three other family members during Wednesday's vigil. ``We must keep the fight going.'' She said the vigil was both for the family members and to ``ask governments: How many more days can a normal human being take? Maybe the governments will start to think about it.'' Keenan, 38, was using an Irish passport when he was abducted, but both the Irish and British governments are working toward his release. The British government also seeks the release of Anglican envoy Terry Waite and journalist John McCarthy. And it seeks word on Alec Collett, a New York-based British journalist whose Palestinian abductors claim they killed him. His body was never found. In all, 15 foreigners are missing in Lebanon and believed held hostage. They include nine Americans, among them Associated Press chief Middle East correspondent Terry Anderson, who was abducted on March 16, 1985.
<irrelevant> Moslem police facing murder charges seized the police chief of the western island of Mindanao and his chief of staff Thursday and threatened to burn down the city, officials said. Negotiations for the release of Brig. Gen. Eduardo Batalla, regional Philippine Constabulary commander, and Col. Romeo Abendan continued until dawn Friday. There was no official word to indicate when the hostages might be released. Heavily armed troops surrounded the headquarters building where the hostages were being held. Conflicting reports said one and possibly two people were killed when the Moslem police attacked about noon Thursday in Batalla's office at a seaside military compound in this city, 560 miles south of Manila. In Manila, the radio station DZRH said the estimated 15 policemen and their supporters, led by Patrolman Rizal Alih, accepted an offer by Ramon Mitra, speaker of the House of Representatives, to be flown to Palawan island, 350 miles west of here. The report could not be confirmed. Alih was ordered to surrender to Batalla as part of an investigation into the 1984 killings of seven people, including four marines and an army nurse, during a siege of his home here, said Lt. Col. Jovencio Gongora, city police commander. That incident followed an attempt to arrest Alih in the November 1984 slaying of Zamboanga City Mayor Cesar Climaco. Alih was acquitted in the Climaco killing but faced other murder charges, officials said. When Alih entered Batalla's office, he drew his weapon and shooting broke out, said Lt. Col. Anthony Elias, spokesman for the military's Southern Command. Several other officers managed to flee, but Batalla and Abendan, the chief of staff, were taken prisoner, he said. Four Filipino reporters also were in the office at the time of the shooting but were later released, Elias said. Officials said Alih's brother-in-law was killed and his wife seriously wounded. Others said the wife later died. Sen. Santanina Rasul, a relative of Alih and one of the negotiators, said the gunmen demanded to be flown out of the camp to an undisclosed location along with their hostages. Alih threatened to burn Zamboanga, the major city of western Mindanao, if his demand was not met, she said, adding that he also demanded that all charges against him be dropped. Mrs. Rasul, one of two Moslems in the 23-member Senate, said Mitra offered a plane to fly the gunmen to his home island of Palawan.
<irrelevant> Here is a brief chronology of events related to the Iran-Contra affair. MARCH 7 _ Cable News Network correspondent Jeremy Levin is kidnapped in Beirut. Levin, freed 11 months later, is first of 15 American hostages, of whom eight remain captive. Five were either freed or escaped. University librarian Peter Kilburn and CIA Beirut station chief William Buckley were murdered. SUMMER _ Iranian purchasing agents put out call for weapons, including TOW anti-tank missiles. By November, Iranians are suggesting link between weapons sales and release of U.S. hostages. JULY _ Israeli official suggests dealing with Iran to U.S. national security adviser Robert McFarlane and says transfer of arms could lead to release of hostages. McFarlane takes the message to President Reagan. AUG. 30 _ First planeload of U.S.-made weapons is sent from Israel to Tehran. McFarlane and Donald Regan, White House chief of staff, later disagree on whether Reagan approved shipment. Reagan says he does not remember. SEPT. 14 _ Second shipment is sent to Tehran. SEPT. 15 _ American hostage Rev. Benjamin Weir is released. DEC. 4 _ McFarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by Rear Adm. John Poindexter. DEC. 5 _ Reagan signs finding describing operation with Iran as strictly an arms-for-hostages deal. Poindexter later testifies that on Nov. 21, 1986, he tore up only copy of finding that bore the president's signature. DEC. 5 _ In discussions with Israeli officials about Iran arms shipments, national security aide Lt Col. Oliver North mentions plans to use Iranian weapons sales to generate profits that could be used to support Nicaragua's U.S.-backed Contras. JAN. 17 _ Reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing CIA participation in the sales and ordering process be kept secret from Congress. FEBRUARY _ First direct shipment of arms from Pentagon stocks is sent to Iran. APRIL _ North writes memo outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from Iran arms sales for Contra aid. MAY 25 _ North and McFarlane fly to Tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. Negotiations break down and they return to Washington. SEPT. 26 _ Iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into Swiss bank account. More spare parts and TOWs are prepared for shipment. OCT. 5 _ North flies to West Germany for meeting with Iranian contact who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 TOWs. NOV. 2 _ American hostage David Jacobsen, held since June 1985, is freed. NOV. 4 _ A pro-Syrian news magazine in Beirut breaks news that McFarlane had flown to Iran to meet and negotiate with officials there. NOV. 13 _ White House admits selling arms to Iran. Reagan repeats administration has not bargained with terrorists or sold arms for hostages. NOV. 21 _ CIA director William Casey briefs Senate Intelligence Committee on arms deal, but makes no mention of diversion of funds. North and his secretary, Fawn Hall, shred, alter and remove documents relevant to arms deal. NOV. 25 _ Reagan announces North has been fired and Poindexter has resigned. Attorney General Edwin Meese discloses $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to Contras. NOV. 26 _ Reagan sets up Tower Commission to review role of National Security Council. DEC. 1-3 _ Senate Intelligence Committee begins inquiry into revelations by questioning McFarlane. Committee also questions North and Poindexter, who both invoke the Fifth Amendment. DEC. 19 _ Lawrence E. Walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. Both houses of Congress select investigating committees. FEB. 18 _ Tower Commission issues its report rebuking Reagan for failing to control national security staff. MARCH 4 _ Reagan acknowledges in televised speech his Iranian initiative deteriorated into arms-for-hostages deal. ``It was a mistake.'' MAY 5 _ Congressional Iran-Contra hearings begin with testimony from retired Air Force Gen. Richard Secord, who describes how $3.5 million in proceeds from arms sales to Iran were diverted to Contras. MAY 6 _ Casey dies. MAY 11 _ McFarlane begins four days of testimony, during which he says Reagan instructed staff in 1984 to find ways around congressional ban on U.S. military aid to Contras. McFarlane denies he, North and Poindexter concocted cover story in early November 1986 to cover up administration's arms sales to Iran. JULY 7 _ North begins six days on stand during which he says he had authorization from his superiors for diverting Iran arms sale money to the Contras, Casey knew of diversion all along, and North always assumed Reagan knew about it. But he says he never discussed plan with the president or received written presidential authorization for it. JULY 15 _ Poindexter testifies over five days he never told Reagan Iran arms sale proceeds were being diverted to Contras. Poindexter says Reagan, in writing, authorized straight arms-for-hostages swap in December 1985 but Poindexter tore up the document in November 1986 as the affair unraveled. AUG. 6 _ Hearings conclude. NOV. 18 _ Final report of House and Senate investigating committees concludes Reagan bears ultimate responsibility for Iran-Contra affair because he allowed ``cabal of the zealots'' to seize control of policy and bypass the law. Committee Republicans dissented sharply, saying mistakes amounted only to errors of judgment. MARCH 16 _ North, Poindexter and two others are indicted on charges they conspired to divert Iranian arms sales profits to the Contras. ``I can assure you I will never give up, we will win, I just cannot tell you how soon,'' North says. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell. MARCH 17 _ Marlin Fitzwater, President Reagan's spokesman, says there has been no discussion of a pardon for North. MARCH 18 _ North announces he will retire from the Marine Corps May 1 because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government.'' MARCH 25 _ Reagan refers to ``the so-called scandal'' and says he still considers North ``my hero.'' JUNE 6 _ Gesell, who authorized turning over 300,000 documents to the defense, warns that the danger of exposing the nation's most sensitive secrets poses a serious obstacle to pressing the conspiracy charges against the four defendants. JUNE 8 _ Gesell orders separate trials for the four defendants; Walsh, the next day, chooses North for the leadoff trial. JULY 8 _ Gesell sets Sept. 20 for the start of North's trial. AUG. 5 _ Gesell reschedules trial for after the election to give lawyers time to sort through hundreds of thousands of classified documents and orders North to file a specific notice of the government secrets he wants to disclose. SEPT. 30 _ Federal appeals court rebuffs attempt by North and two other defendants to stop the prosecution. NOV. 7 _ One of 16 criminal counts, fabricating a document, is dismissed. NOV. 21 _ Gesell warns if North stands trial, the court will have little control over the testimony of witnesses ``acquainted with high security matters.'' He appeals to Reagan to decide whether North is to be pardoned. NOV. 29 _ Gesell refuses to dismiss two of the central charges against North, conspiracy to defraud the government and theft of government property. He dismisses a third, wire fraud. DEC. 1 _ President Reagan rules out a North pardon but says ``duty requires'' his administration to block release of secret documents North wants for his trial. DEC. 1 _ Amiram Nir, the Israeli go-between in secret U.S. arms deals with Iran, died Nov. 30 in a plane crash in Mexico while traveling under an assumed name, Mexican officials say. DEC. 12 _ Gesell tells North he can't use 3,500 secret documents; says he can't use more than 300, roughly the same number planned to be introduced as evidence by the prosecution. The decision removes a major obstacle to the trial going forward. DEC. 16 _ John W. Keker, a former Marine who was _ like North _ wounded in combat in Vietnam, is named to be lead prosecutor in North's trial. DEC. 21 _ Gesell sets Jan. 31 for the start of the trial. DEC. 30 _ North subpoenaes President Reagan and President-elect Bush as defense witnesses. The Justice Department says the summons ``raises significant legal and constitutional questions.'' JAN. 5 _ Prosecutors ask Gesell to dismiss conspiracy and theft charges, citing North's ``insistence on introducing classified information in his defense'' and the Reagan administration's refusal to release material the judge ruled North would need at trial. Gesell sets hearing for Jan. 9. Reagan says action satisfies concern about national security. Asked about a pardon, he says ``we're waiting for the judicial process to go forward.''
<irrelevant> Troops backed by tanks and armored personnel carriers today stormed a military garrison after Moslem captors killed a general they were holding hostage, officials said. A hospital near the garrison said at least five people were wounded. A wounded soldier reported numerous dead, and city police chief Lt. Col. Jovencio Gongora said several bodies still were in the compound. Gongora said he suspended the assault at dark. Bodies could not be recovered because some dissident Moslems were believed still on the grounds. Defense Secretary Fidel Ramos told reporters in Manila the attack began after the military learned the regional Constabulary commander, Brig. Gen. Eduardo Batalla, had been shot and killed by a renegade Moslem policemen. One of the wounded, Staff Sgt. Rosendo Novelenio, told reporters there were ``many dead'' on the second floor of the headquarters building where Brig. Gen. Eduardo Batalla and his chief of staff, Col. Romeo Abendan, had been held. There was no word on Abendan's fate. Batalla and Abendan were captured Thursday after Batalla ordered Moslem policemen to surrender their weapons and face murder charges in a 1984 incident. House of Representatives Speaker Ramon Mitra said the military decided to storm the garrison after the policemen's leader, patrolman Rizal Alih, rejected Mitra's last offer. Mitra had asked to see Batalla and verify he was alive. Ramos said the military learned of Batalla's death from the governor of largely Moslem Sulu province, Tupay Loong, who spoke with the kidnappers. Witnesses said tanks and armored personnel carriers smashed through the gates ahead of marines. Reporters saw captors resist with automatic rifles and grenade launchers, and at least one armored vehicle was disabled by the firing. Reporters said a portion of the building where the hostages were held had been destroyed by tank fire. Officials said 30 to 40 armed men, some of whom may have been Moslem soldiers, apparently slipped into the headquarters building overnight to join Alih and an estimated 15 followers. The captors demanded to be flown to Siasi Island, 120 miles to the southwest. Mitra said Alih reneged on an overnight deal to end the dispute in exchange for a safe passage to Palawan Island, where he would surrender to military police. Alih was charged in the November 1984 slaying of Mayor Cesar Climaco but was acquitted. Three weeks after Climaco's death, seven people were killed in a marine raid on Alih's home. Alih faces murder charges in those deaths. Last month, Batalla received permission to arrest Alih. He and eight others were ordered detained by Batalla and all of them could be charged with murder or conspiracy to commit murder. Military officials claim Alih has been operating several illegal businesses in the Zamboanga area, 560 miles south of Manila. About 5 million Moslems live in the Philippines, which has population of 59 million. About half Zamboanga's residents are Christian and half Moslem. Batalla, 50, was promoted to brigadier general last month. He graduated from the Philippine Military Academy in 1961, finishing sixth in a class of 54.
</top>
<top>
<num> 65
<title> Information Retrieval Systems
<irrelevant> In the United States, Mitsubishi sells the Montero. In Japan, it's the Pajero. Mazda markets the 626 here, the same as the Capella back home. A BMW 750iL is a 750iL no matter where it's sold. Putting a name on a car is a special mission, sometimes carrying special considerations for the U.S. market. What's in a name can lead to bewilderment and, as in at least two cases, lawsuits. The United States is by far the largest car and light truck market in the world, a money pool foreign automakers cannot ignore. That includes Toyota, which sold more than 616,000 Japan-made cars in the United States last year and Sterling, which sold fewer than 9,000 cars in 1988. The American car-buyer is different from others, especially Europeans who own fewer cars and are more discriminating in what they want, said Bill Wilcox, a car marketing plans manager at Ford Motor Co. Europeans ``are much more able to deal with, we have found, alphanumeric designations for car names,'' he said. ``Whereas the majority of people drive here, but a very small percent know what they have in their car.'' John Maton, who sells BMW and Mercedes-Benz autos in Ann Arbor, said: ``There's confusion if they're new customers'' and don't understand the significance of a car's name. Of all imports, those two West German makers may have the most systematic approach to ``badging,'' their cars. The designations indicate characteristics, size of the car and its engine. For example, the top-of-the-line BMW 750iL is a 7-series (the ``7'') car with a 5.0-liter (the ``50''), fuel-injected (the ``i'') engine on a long (the ``L'') wheelbase. All automakers selling worldwide spend lots of time and money researching names. It doesn't always spare them problems. Toyota Motor Corp. is in federal court battling Mead Data Central Inc. over the use of the name Lexus for the auto company's new line of luxury cars designed strictly for U.S. sale. Mead claims Lexus waters down the name of its legal information retrieval service, Lexis. Lexus spokesman Kurt Von Zumwalt said among the 600 or so names Toyota officials in the United States and Japan started with was ``Alexis.'' ``We took that and a few other names that were on the list and, in-house, formed a committee,'' he said. ``As a result of that committee, the word Lexus was developed with the idea that it connoted luxury and high technology, which were the two images that we wanted to create.'' The company conducted U.S. and international trademark searches and found the similarity with Mead's Lexis. Toyota attorneys figured there would be no problem. They were mistaken. Last April 22, after negotiations, Mead Data sued Toyota in federal court in New York. A hearing is scheduled for Jan. 30. Until then, Toyota can continue limited use of the Lexus name. The two models were unveiled at the North American International Auto Show here last week. Von Zumwalt said Toyota has no regrets over its name choice. Besides, it has spent millions on development and promotion of the Lexus name. ``Hindsight is always perfect,'' he said. ``By the time Mead said `We are going to sue,' we were into it too far.'' General Motors Corp. also is in court over the name of one of its Chevrolets, the Beretta. The Italian weapons-maker Beretta claims trademark infringement. That suit also is pending in New York. The name of Mitsubishi's Pajero, a sport-utility vehicle made and sold in Japan, was changed to the Montero for U.S. distribution in part because the word appeared vaguely Spanish. Some consumers therefore may pronounce the ``j'' as an ``h,'' spokesman Shane Smith said. He also said the Japanese name ``wasn't as an aggressive a name as the competition, like (Nissan's) Pathfinder or (Ford's) Bronco. ``Beyond that,'' he said, ``...Montero is easier to pronounce for Americans.'' One of the names that's no trouble for Americans to pronounce is Sterling, an upscale car made in the United Kingdom and distributed through Austin Rover Cars of North America. The Sterling name, said marketing director Dave Huyett, ``gave tremendous connotations to what the car should be _ luxury, prestige and high end. ``It was a natural,'' he said.
<irrelevant> The world's biggest library hasn't escaped the growing epidemic of computer viruses, according to a computer specialist for the Library of Congress. Glenn McLoughlin, a staff member with the Science Policy Research Division of the library's Congressional Research Service, disclosed Thursday that a virus was spotted and killed out of the main catalog computer system last fall before it could inflict any damage to data files. ``It was identified before it could spread or permanently erase any data,'' he told a delegation of Japanese computer specialists touring this country to assess the virus problem. The Library of Congress, with a staff of about 5,000 people, annually receives more than 1 million books, magazines, newspapers and other items from around the globe. It has a variety of computer systems to help handle the massive information base. McLoughlin said the virus was found after personnel logging onto computers at the library noticed they had substantially less computer memory space to work with than they had expected. The virus apparently entered the system through a piece of software obtained from the University of Maryland, McLoughlin said. ``We don't know whether it was a student at Maryland, or whether Maryland had gotten it from somebody else,'' he said. ``That was simply the latest point of departure for the software.'' Viruses are generally small strings of computer code that can be stealthily inserted into programs, causing various problems including destruction of data and sudden clogging of a computer's memory with thousands of copies of the virus. Another computer security specialist addressing Thursday's briefing said the world may be heading toward a catastrophic computer failure unless more effective measures are taken to combat viruses. Professor Lance J. Hoffman of George Washington University likened the virus which struck the Pentagon's computer network last November to a frightening nuclear accident, and said it ``could have had very disastrous consequences for our society.'' ``It wasn't Chernobyl yet, it was the Three Mile Island _ it woke a lot of people up,'' Hoffman said.
<irrelevant> Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl C. Icahn offered to meet with Eastern Airlines unions to discuss buying the strike-paralyzed carrier. The takeover strategist said Wednesday the striking Machinists union had contacted him several times in the last week, asking him to enter into talks with the union ``concerning the acquisition by TWA of Eastern.'' His emergence in the quickly deteriorating situation at Eastern came on the fifth day of a strike at the subsidiary of Texas Air Corp., run by an old Icahn adversary, Frank Lorenzo. Americans by a 2-to-1 margin believe that Japan, not the United States, is now the leading economic power in the world, according to a public opinion poll. The poll, conducted by the Gallup Organization for the Times Mirror Co., found that 59 percent of Americans now rank Japan as the No. 1 economic power with only 29 percent of Americans believing that the United States still holds that position. The poll was released Wednesday. The Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee approved legislation to raise the minimum wage $1.30 an hour to $4.65 after rejecting a Bush administration plan for a smaller increase coupled with a reduced ``training wage.'' President Bush has said he would veto legislation raising the minimum above $4.25 an hour and told GOP leaders Wednesday that, in the words of press secretary Marlin Fitzwater, his proposal was his last offer. United Steelworkers President Lynn Williams teamed with a steel executive in calling for the extension of controversial steel import restraints, but a consumers' group termed the curbs ``the worst possible form of protectionism.'' A debate Wednesday sponsored by the private Economic Policy Institute brought together leading advocates and opponents of America's five-year ``voluntary restraint'' program, which was negotiated by the Reagan administration in 1984 and limits steel imports from 19 countries and the European Community. The import curbs expire on Sept. 30. Grand Metropolitan PLC, the British food and liquor concern that acquired Pillsbury Co. earlier this year, is selling the company's Steak and Ale and Bennigan's restaurant chains to a management-led investor group for $431 million. Grand Met said Wednesday the investors included senior management of the operating company for the two Dallas-based chains, S&amp;A Restaurant Corp., and DJS-Inverness and Co., a New York-based private investment partnership. A federal appeals court panel in New York turned aside an attempt by an Ohio information retrieval service to bar Toyota Motor Corp. from using the name Lexus on a new line of luxury cars. Toyota was sued by Mead Data Central Inc. of Dayton, Ohio, last year. Mead claimed Toyota's use of the Lexus name infringed on its computerized information retrieval service called Lexis. Mead attorney Charles Faruki said Wednesday the company would have no formal statement until it had a chance to read the opinion. Shareholders filed three suits in Delaware state court to block the planned $18 billion merger between Time Inc. and Warner Communications Inc. One of the suits, filed Wednesday by four Warner shareholders against Time and Warner, Warner's board of directors and Warner Chairman, Steven Ross, alleged the merger and a planned preliminary exchange of stock between the two companies _ known as a lock-up transaction _ would prevent an outsider from making a possibly higher bid for Warner. Private industry, not the government, must lead the effort to develop the ``enormous'' potential of high-definition television for everything from education to wall-sized TV sets and military applications, Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher told Congress. Mosbacher said Wednesday it was premature to say just what the government role should be in helping develop HDTV in the face of foreign competition, but he said the government is considering tax incentives and possible antitrust exemptions for U.S. companies that wish to band together in the HDTV effort. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said the government intervened heavily to support the dollar against key foreign currencies in the late fall _ particularly after the presidential elections _ then reversed course by early this year as market conditions changed. The intervention to influence the level of the dollar in the three months ended Jan. 31 was the heaviest in a year, according to the latest quarterly foreign-exchange report issued Wednesday by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which carries out the operations. The stock market posted a small gain Wednesday, as the Dow Jones average of 30 industrials closed with a 4.83 gain at 2,295.54. Bond prices posted moderate gains in quiet trading. The dollar strengthened against all major currencies. Energy futures prices posted strong gains, but soybean, precious metals, copper, livestock and meat futures all finished lower.
<irrelevant> The company that lost a bitter trademark dispute in a federal appeals court is a futuristic computerized information retrieval service, with banks of computers in a bunkered, earthquake-proof building. Mead Data Central Inc. of Dayton electronically stores general news, business, legal, medical and other information. The data is fed daily from newspapers, magazines, wire services, book publishers and other sources. The information is collected through satellite transmissions, telephone lines and even _ in the case of court documents _ transcribed from copies, then placed in Mead's electronic library in a format that can be quickly located and retrieved. ``Everything that's happening today will be in our system _ or most of it _ by tomorrow,'' said Jack Simpson, president of Mead Data Central. The company has about 200,000 active users in 50 countries. Its computer library is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and runs between 50,000 and 75,000 active information searches every day. About 500 million characters of information are added to the library weekly. The company employs about 3,000 workers, 1,500 of them in Dayton. The workers manage the information coming into the system and keep the computers operating. A customer seeking information calls Mead through a computer hookup. The information is instantly researched and relayed back via computer, with the customer billed for the amount of computer time used. During the peak afternoon hours, the Mead computers can be handling as many as 900 calls simultaneously. Discs and computers are kept in a bunkered building on 1.5 acres. The building is fireproof and earthquake-proof, and has five huge diesel generators _ ``enough to run a small city'' _ in case power fails. ``It's a very sophisticated never-die kind of a computing facility,'' Simpson said. ``The customers are not very sympathetic if they need information and it's not there.'' Mead Data Central is a unit of Mead Corp., the Dayton-based paper maker. The subsidiary was formed about 15 years ago with the creation of Lexus, the electronic information system designed for law firms and corporations. Lexus is the focus of a trademark feud with Japan's Toyota Motor Corp., which has introduced a new luxury car called Lexis. Mead Data Central said the Lexis name infringed on its Lexus name. On Wednesday, a federal appeals court panel in New York turned aside Mead Data Central's attempt to bar Toyota from using the Lexus name. It was unclear whether Mead would appeal. The company turned in a record year in 1988, pulling in more than $300 million in revenue. Simpson has said he believes the computer information industry is still in the process of forming. ``Proving that you could put all of this in a computer and managing all those words took a lot of doing,'' he said. ``Making it economical for law firms and corporations to use has been a big challenge.'' Simpson said the company is also moving into information storage for the Securities and Exchange Commission, which generates massive amounts of data. The company is part of a consortium that recently won a $52 million contract to computerize the SEC. Simpson said the amount of data held by the SEC is equivalent to all of the information Mead has put into its computer over the past 15 years. It would be the first federal agency to place its data in an electronic library in this form.
<irrelevant> A new agreement between the National Security Agency and a research arm of the Commerce Department aims to bolster their joint efforts to safeguard sensitive information handled by thousands of federal government computer systems. The memorandum of understanding was signed late last week by the NSA's director, Vice Adm. W.O. Studeman, and Raymond G. Kammer, acting director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Under prodding from Congress, the two agencies have started working closely together to review computer security plans submitted by offices throughout the government for protecting systems containing sensitive but unclassified data. The effort has been spurred by mounting concern over so-called computer viruses, including a virus ``attack'' last November that crippled more than 6,000 computers connected to the Defense Department's Internet electronic network. NIST, based in suburban Gaithersburg, Md., serves as a national reference and measurement laboratory for the physical and engineering sciences. It performs a wide range of research intended to benefit U.S. industry. The supersecret NSA, headquartered at Fort Meade, Md., is the nation's biggest intelligence agency, with a work force topping 60,000 employees _ more than all other U.S. spy agencies combined _ and a budget said to be upwards of $10 billion a year. Its main missions are eavesdropping on communications around the world, encrypting U.S. communications and cracking foreign codes, as well as protecting the security of U.S. computers and communications systems. Kammer said Friday that the agreement ``provides a structure for discussions between NSA and us if there are issues that arise where there is a conflict between a classified or national security issue and regular civilian data issues. By and large, it's a commitment by us to work together.'' He noted that the NSA's current position toward cooperating with NIST _ under legislation signed into law early last year _ contrasted with the intelligence agency's previous attitude. ``We went through a bad spot about a year ago,'' Kammer said. ``There was a feeling by the then-management of NSA that the Computer Security Act was a problem, something that they opposed. ... The management team that's in there now has taken the philosophy that it's the law of the land, let's get it done. That's been a big and refreshing change.'' Kammer told a congressional hearing last week that as of March 13, the joint NIST-NSA review team had received 1,543 computer security plans _ 74 from the Pentagon and the remainder from civilian agencies. The General Accounting Office said last September that federal agencies at that time had identified 53,443 computer systems _ an estimated 52,000 of them within the Defense Department _ containing sensitive data. Testifying before two House Science subcommittees, Kammer said NIST had been working with the Justice Department and NSA to establish an ``emergency response capability'' to deal with ``malicious software attacks'' such as computer viruses. Viruses are generally small strings of computer code that can be stealthily inserted into software programs _ and spread widely through electronic networks _ to cause computers to malfunction by clogging memory, destroying or altering data, or other actions. ``For the current fiscal year I have redirected $200,000 to start up an effort to coordinate responses to computer security incidents and to create an information clearinghouse,'' Kammer said. Appearing at the same hearing, the NSA's Studeman said the Pentagon has ordered his agency to ``pursue intensive research and development with the objective of identifying means to counter computer viruses.'' ``Today there are no known solutions that can guarantee protection of a system against malicious software,'' he said. But Studeman added that ``we believe strongly that the proper use of trusted products, coupled with sound system security management and increased funding and emphasis in the area of research and development, offers the best hope for preventing, detecting and containing such attacks.'' Provisions of the four-page memorandum of understanding include: _NIST will draw upon computer technical security guidelines developed by the NSA. _NIST will request the NSA's assistance on all matters related to cryptographic techniques. _NSA will carry out research and development programs in ``trusted technology,'' telecommunications security, encryption techniques and personal identification methods. _NSA will ``conduct assessments of the hostile intelligence threat to federal information systems, and provide technical assistance and recommend endorsed products for application to secure systems against that threat.'' _NIST and NSA will jointly review agency plans for the security and privacy of computer systems. _NIST and NSA will ``maintain an ongoing, open dialogue'' to ensure that each organization remains abreast of emerging technologies and issues affecting the security automated information systems.
</top>
<top>
<num> 66
<title> Natural Language Processing
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. missed out on the personal computer boom, but it hopes a big product announcement next week will keep it abreast of the next wave in computing, desktop workstations. Officials of the world's second biggest computer maker said Wednesday they would introduce advanced workstations along with new software and industry-standard personal computers in a major news conference on Tuesday. ``It's probably the most significant desktop announcement we've ever made,'' Donald McInnis, vice president of Digital's engineering systems group, said in a telephone interview. Digital, the minicomputer giant based in Maynard, Mass., lost out on billions of dollars in potential revenue from personal computers because its founder and president, Kenneth Olsen, underestimated the importance of the machines. The company kept building bigger and more powerful clusters of minicomputers to compete with International Business Machines Corp., its bigger rival. Two previous attempts to catch up in the PC business failed: the Rainbow, which did not run industry-standard software, and the Vaxmate, which was too expensive. In its third attempt, Digital is showing some humility by selling personal computers made for it by Tandy Corp. according to Digital specifications. ``It's stating for the world that, `Yes, we're going to be in the low end of the market,''' said Sonny Monosson, editor of the Monosson Report on DEC and IBM. In the smaller but faster-growing workstation business, where Digital already has the second biggest share of the world market despite selling relatively slow machines, the company plans two lines of fast and relatively cheap entries that should expand its market share. Workstations are speedy desktop computers capable of displaying intricate graphics and are used primarily by scientists, engineers and other technical professionals. As a sign of the importance Digital attaches to workstations, the company will break from tradition by selling one line incapable of running programs written for its own Vax VMS operating system. The new line will run only programs written for Ultrix, Digital's version of the Unix operating system. For the new workstation, Digital had to choose between speed and compatibility, and it chose speed by using a microprocessor supplied by Mips Computer Systems Inc. that cannot handle VMS instructions. In the software area, Digital scored a major but little-noticed victory last week when the Open Software Foundation, a standards group, selected its technology as the standard for the means by which programs appear in ``windows'' on a computer screen. Technology from Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. was selected as the standard for the look and feel, or surface trimmings, of the screen presentation. The decision on standards should help simplify life for computer users and programmers. ``Until now we've had chaos and anarchy in terms of standards at the desktop,'' McInnis said. The emphasis on desktop computers is a return to Digital's roots. The company was founded in 1957 to build small computers better suited to individual users than the powerful but complicated mainframe computers dominant at the time. Analysts differed on how Digital's new workstations would fare against the competition of Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc. and others. ``They overtook and passed Apollo in '88. With this new line of products I think they're going to overtake Sun,'' said Jonathan Cohler, editor-in-chief of Digital Review, an independent weekly newspaper based in Boston. But Russell Crabs, an analyst for SoundView Financial Group in Stamford, Conn., said the high-powered workstation will not take off right away because there is not enough software written for Digital's Ultrix. ``I think it's a defensive move, primarily against Sun,'' he said. Digital will trumpet the new products in a press conference in Littleton, Mass., and other presentations that day and the next in Santa Clara, Calif.; London; Paris; Copenhagen, Denmark; Sydney, Australia; and Tokyo.
<irrelevant> The Consumer Electronics Show drew the curtain on its winter show Tuesday after unveiling a dazzling array of electronic gadgetry, releasing buoyant sales figures and fielding an olive branch from the movie industry. ``Exhibitors tell us this was the most crowded show they've ever seen,'' CES spokeswoman Cynthia Saraniti said. ``They're all happy. They're all writing business. They think it's been a tremendous success.'' Ms. Saraniti said members of the industry see 1989 as ``a very good year. The exhibitors are extremely optimistic.'' The health of the industry is a reflection on the economy in general since most of those exhibiting their wares here depend on the discretionary income of consumers. Industry officials are predicting $31.645 billionin factory sales in consumer electronics goods in 1989, up 5 percent from 1988 figures. A record 1,430 exhibitors spent four days touting wares ranging from camcorders and computers to TVs, video games and adult flicks. Attendance for the show is expected to range between 80,000 and 90,000, Ms. Saraniti said. Final figures are due Wednesday. Higher attendance figures have been announced in past years, but Ms. Saraniti said this is the first year actual attendance has been checked against pre-registration. Products at the 1989 show covered 776,000 square feet of display space _ an area the size of 19 football fields. Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, told the convention Sunday that the VCR industry, once viewed as a virus by the movie industry, now is seen as a tonic. He called for ``cooperative collaboration'' between the movie and electronics industry, and said the two should join in the fight against film pirating. A major focus at this year's show was home automation, which allows home electronics products and utilities to ``talk'' to each other. The new system has been described as a ``communications pathway throughout the home.'' One scenario for the new system would allow a homeowner to check electronically his or her home security system at night, locking doors, turning off lights, turning down the thermostat _ all from controls in the bedroom. ``We've developed a language which allows your appliances to speak with and control one another,'' CES spokesman Tom Lauterback said. ``Items such as cellular phones will allow you to start your appliances at any time, any place,'' Lauterback said. Another highlight of this year's show was the growing home office equipment industry. CES officials say 20 million Americans are working out of their homes, bringing a boom in a wide range of products from facsimile machines to telephones, copiers and other equipment. Industry officials say more than 26 million telephones were sold in the United States last year. Murata, which hopes to capture 18 percent of the growing fax market, showcased a number of machines _ pushing a model selling for $899. Ricoh featured a hand-held copier, the MC50, that scans the original and copies any point desired. A companion interface module turns the MC50 into a facsimile transceiver, with the unit acting as a scanner for the original material being transmitted or received via telephone. Smith Corona featured a word processor with a feature known as Address Merge, which enables the user to merge a list of names and addresses with a standard letter. Franklin Computer featured an electronic dictionary, thesaurus and phonetic spelling corrector including more than 83,000 words. Known as the Language Master 4000, the user enters a word the way it sounds. The unit then displays the definition of the word, the parts of speech, hyphenation points and inflected forms of the word. The unit also pronounces the word. Health and fitness continued to be a major interest at the show. Casio introduced what it called the world's first electronic pedometer. The watch is touted to give accurate readings of caloric consumption during workouts. Casio says that unlike mechanical pedometers, the new EXW50 will automatically adjust to the type of exercise being performed, such as jogging, aerobics, etc. Audio-video was again a big draw, with industry officials predicting Americans would buy 20 million color TV sets in 1989. Companies went to great lengths to gain an edge with dealers and distributors who will be putting their products on display shelves this year. Pioneer showcased a $10,000 car audio-video system in a $295,000 hand-built Gambella Avalanche sports car. Tyco introduced Hot Lixx, a computerized electric guitar that allows players to use a series of buttons in lieu of strings, creating their own musical sounds. Acclaim introduced a series of video games including Airwolf, after the television series, and Nightrider, which involves ``driving'' a car to 20 different cities. Atari announced it would bring out 20 new game titles in the first quarter of 1989. Nintendo Entertainment and Broderbund Software introduced U-FORCE, a video game controller that eliminates all physical contact between player and machine such as the traditional joysticks or buttons. Saitek Industries, which has an electronic chess game, revived another old standard, introducing an electronic checkers game.
<irrelevant> They're super-swift high-tech superstars that can do anything from design nuclear warheads to build a better yacht. Supercomputers are used by the government, the military, universities and Fortune 500 companies to help crack codes, forecast weather, design aircraft, conduct geological exploration or simulate the effects of nuclear explosions. ``The supercomputer is important economically and socially,'' said Peter Patton, a computer consultant in Minnesota. ``They're used in everything from the mundane to the sublime _ designing appliances ... to developing new life-saving techniques and surgery.'' That range, he said, can help shape America's role in the world economy. ``The whole name of the game is competitive advantage in the international market,'' said Patton, director of technology assessment at the Super Performance Computing Service of Dataquest Inc., a marketing-forecasting firm. ``The key to maintaining that competitive advantage is faster design, reduced government certification time, better testing.'' The two major U.S. supercomputer companies are Cray Research Inc. and ETA Systems Inc., a subsidiary of Control Data Corp. Its competition: three Japanese computer giants _ Fujitsu, Hitachi and NEC. There also are about three dozen smaller, so-called ``mini-supercomputer'' companies in the United States, Patton said. Some experts believe the Japanese are threatening America's dominance of the industry. ``We opened a very large lead and we no longer have that large lead,'' Patton said. One of Japan's main advantages, he said, is it has the ``lion's share of semiconductor (computer chips) market. We gave up on the semiconductor industry.'' But other experts say it's too early to talk of the Japanese overtaking the United States. ``Even though Cray machines use a lot of Japanese components, I don't think it's fair to say they're ahead in any way, shape or form,'' said Michael Burwen, president of Palo Alto Management Group, a consulting firm. ``There are a lot of people who say the Japanese are a very big threat to supercomputers,'' he said. ``I don't think the evidence is in. The Japanese certainly have not been able to demonstrate they can penetrate anything outside their home market in this business.'' About 350 supercomputers have been installed worldwide. U.S. customers include NASA, the National Cancer Institute and Los Alamos National Laboratory, location of the first Cray, introduced in 1976. Supercomputers can do billions of calculations a second. For example, a Bible concordance _ an alphabetical referencing by word _ that took a scholar 17 years to do in the mid-1700s and required 1,000 hours on a computer in 1956 can be done on a Cray supercomputer in 20 seconds, Patton said. Although experts sometimes disagree on what a supercomputer is, it generally is described as the fastest, largest, most expensive machine at any time _ one that can do problems others can't. Burwen also said 44 percent of all supercomputers are in private industry, 37 percent in government installations, and 19 percent in universities. Nowadays, supercomputers are changing industry, because products ``can not only be designed and prototyped on screen, but be tested and evaluated ... and have complete data performance before you touch tool to steel,'' he said. Automakers, for one, ``can do a design in six months instead of 18 months,'' he said. ``You can literally take years off the design cycle.'' Supercomputers have also begun to simulate crash testing for autos. And oil companies use supercomputers to get the best production in petroleum exploration. ``If they get 1 percent (more oil) out of a reservoir, it pays for itself 100 times over,'' Patton said. ``What if it's a $10 million computer if you get $20 billion (more oil) out of a reservoir?'' Among Cray's customers are America's Big Three automakers, Volkswagen, Fiat and petroleum giants such as Shell and Chevron. A Cray supercomputer also was used to help design Stars &amp; Stripes, the yacht Dennis Conner sailed in 1987 when he won the America's Cup. Two competing syndicates also used Cray technology, said company spokesman John Swenson. Scientists designing supercomputers are toiling in an industry constantly trying to produce faster machines. Cray plans to have a new supercomputer ready this year or next, and it's expected to be 100 times faster than his original machine. In 1992-94, he hopes to produce the Cray-4, 1,000 times more powerful. And, Swenson said, that won't be the end. As he explained, ``We still don't see the limit.''
<irrelevant> Sixteen U.S. electronics companies have agreed to study the feasibility of creating a corporate partnership that would develop the next generation of televisions, a trade group says. The partnership would be a potentially profit-making organization that would work with the federal government on research leading to the manufacture of high-definition TV sets, the American Electronics Association said Thursday. The partnership might even do its own manufacturing of components, such as picture tubes, spokesman John Hatch said. The trade group argues that the United States cannot afford to be left behind by the Japanese in the next generation of bright, sharp televisions, which will be packed with sophisticated electronics. ``Given the unlikelihood of an individual U.S. company risking entering this evolving new market, the action is a logical and practical next step for the industry,'' Pat Hill Hubbard, the group's vice president for science and technology policy, said in a statement. Some analysts have expressed skepticism about the potential for success of such a partnership, and some of the companies that agreed to do the feasibility study said they were not necessarily committed to participating in a partnership. John Taylor, a spokesman for Zenith Electronics Corp., the last major U.S. television manufacturer, said, ``In terms of overall support, we rate this as third or fourth in importance.'' Acknowledging the obstacles, Ms. Hubbard said in an interview, ``There's not been a soul who's encouraged me personally or AEA in general on doing this. There's been nothing but nay-sayers.'' Asked if she was optimistic about the chances for a partnership, she said, ``Optimistic is too elevated a word. This is a logical next step.'' Companies funding development of a business plan for the proposed venture are Hewlett-Packard Co., Varian Associates, Cohu Inc., Digital Equipment Corp., ITT Corp., Prometrix Corp., PCO Inc., Zenith, International Business Machines Corp., Apple Computer Inc., Tektronix Inc., Raychem Corp., Motorola Inc., Texas Instruments Inc., Harris Corp. and AVX Corp. Also participating is MCC, the Austin, Texas-based research consortium formerly known as Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corp.
<irrelevant> They're super-swift high-tech superstars that can do anything from design nuclear warheads to build a better yacht. Supercomputers are used by the government, the military, universities and Fortune 500 companies to help crack codes, forecast weather, design aircraft, conduct geological exploration or simulate the effects of nuclear explosions. ``The supercomputer is important economically and socially,'' said Peter Patton, a computer consultant in Minnesota. ``They're used in everything from the mundane to the sublime _ designing appliances ... to developing new life-saving techniques and surgery.'' That range, he said, can help shape America's role in the world economy. ``The whole name of the game is competitive advantage in the international market,'' said Patton, director of technology assessment at the Super Performance Computing Service of Dataquest Inc., a marketing-forecasting firm. ``The key to maintaining that competitive advantage is faster design, reduced government certification time, better testing.'' The two major U.S. supercomputer companies are Cray Research Inc. and ETA Systems Inc., a subsidiary of Control Data Corp. Its competition: three Japanese computer giants _ Fujitsu, Hitachi and NEC. There also are about three dozen smaller, so-called ``mini-supercomputer'' companies in the United States, Patton said. Some experts believe the Japanese are threatening America's dominance of the industry. ``We opened a very large lead and we no longer have that large lead,'' Patton said. One of Japan's main advantages, he said, is it has the ``lion's share of semiconductor (computer chips) market. We gave up on the semiconductor industry.'' But other experts say it's too early to talk of the Japanese overtaking the United States. ``Even though Cray machines use a lot of Japanese components, I don't think it's fair to say they're ahead in any way, shape or form,'' said Michael Burwen, president of Palo Alto Management Group, a consulting firm. ``There are a lot of people who say the Japanese are a very big threat to supercomputers,'' he said. ``I don't think the evidence is in. The Japanese certainly have not been able to demonstrate they can penetrate anything outside their home market in this business.'' About 350 supercomputers have been installed worldwide. U.S. customers include NASA, the National Cancer Institute and Los Alamos National Laboratory, location of the first Cray, introduced in 1976. Supercomputers can do billions of calculations a second. For example, a Bible concordance _ an alphabetical referencing by word _ that took a scholar 17 years to do in the mid-1700s and required 1,000 hours on a computer in 1956 can be done on a Cray supercomputer in 20 seconds, Patton said. Although experts sometimes disagree on what a supercomputer is, it generally is described as the fastest, largest, most expensive machine at any time _ one that can do problems others can't. Burwen also said 44 percent of all supercomputers are in private industry, 37 percent in government installations, and 19 percent in universities. Nowadays, supercomputers are changing industry, because products ``can not only be designed and prototyped on screen, but be tested and evaluated ... and have complete data performance before you touch tool to steel,'' he said. Automakers, for one, ``can do a design in six months instead of 18 months,'' he said. ``You can literally take years off the design cycle.'' Supercomputers have also begun to simulate crash testing for autos. And oil companies use supercomputers to get the best production in petroleum exploration. ``If they get 1 percent (more oil) out of a reservoir, it pays for itself 100 times over,'' Patton said. ``What if it's a $10 million computer if you get $20 billion (more oil) out of a reservoir?'' Among Cray's customers are America's Big Three automakers, Volkswagen, Fiat and petroleum giants such as Shell and Chevron. A Cray supercomputer also was used to help design Stars &amp; Stripes, the yacht Dennis Conner sailed in 1987 when he won the America's Cup. Two competing syndicates also used Cray technology, said company spokesman John Swenson. Scientists designing supercomputers are toiling in an industry constantly trying to produce faster machines. Cray plans to have a new supercomputer ready this year or next, and it's expected to be 100 times faster than his original machine. In 1992-94, he hopes to produce the Cray-4, 1,000 times more powerful. And, Swenson said, that won't be the end. As he explained, ``We still don't see the limit.''
</top>
<top>
<num> 67
<title> Politically Motivated Civil Disturbances
<relevant> A senior Israeli general has resigned after complaining that efforts to put down the Palestininan uprising in the occupied territories could damage the moral character of soldiers, a newspaper reported today. Also today, the army chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Dan Shomron, was quoted as saying troops can never quell the rebellion because it is a political struggle. The reports are likely to increase the debate among Israelis over the army's role in combating the 13-month uprising in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Five more Palestinians were wounded in the uprising today, and three Palestinians were indicted in the firebombing of an Israeli passenger bus. The mass-circulation daily Maariv reported that Maj. Gen. Menachem Einan was leaving his job as the army's logistics chief over concern about the impact of the uprising on Israeli soldiers. ``I am very worried about the level of morality of Israel soldiers in the territories,'' Einan was quoted as saying. ``We are making them face provocations that inspire maliciousness all too quickly.'' An army spokesman said on condition of anonymity that Einan would step down Friday to take a civilian job. However, the spokesman, who demanded anonymity, said the resignation had nothing to do with the reported criticism. The military command refused to allow The Associated Press to interview Einan and made no immediate statement on the report. In the interview with Maariv, Einan traced his worries to the government's handling of its 1982 Lebanon invasion, which turned into a three-year war instead of the planned limited campaign. He said the result showed him the military should sometimes question what political leaders are saying. ``My big lesson is that perhaps there are times when the fighting military echelons cannot accept to the last letter the instructions given by political echelons,'' he said. In another report, the Jerusalem Post said Shomron told a closed-door session of Parliament's Defense and Foreign Affairs Committee on Tuesday that the army was limited in its ability to break up the ``intefadeh,'' the Arabic word used for the uprising. ``There is no such thing as eradicating the intefadeh, because in essence it expressed the struggle of nationalism,'' the paper quoted him as saying. Israeli newspapers said today the army indicted three Palestinians on murder charges for throwing three firebombs at an Israeli passenger bus Oct. 30 in the West Bank city of Jericho. Five Israelis _ a soldier, a mother, and her three small children _ died in the attack. A total of 15 Israelis have been killed as a result of the uprising in the territories Israel took from Arab neighbors in the 1967 Middle East War. At least 349 Palestinians have been killed, most by army gunfire. Israeli troops today shot and wounded five young Palestinians in clashes in the Gaza Strip refugee camps of Nusseirat and Khan Yunis and the West Bank village of Ein Abush, Arab doctors said. Among the wounded was a 12-year-old shot in the left thigh. The army said it was checking the reports.
<relevant> A 15-year-old Palestinian died today of head wounds suffered in a clash with troops, and assailants believed to be Jewish militants smashed a monument to Arab soldiers in east Jerusalem. Mayor Teddy Kollek called the vandals in the capital's Arab sector ``idiots'' and expressed concern that their action might lead to retaliation by Arab militants and further fuel tensions in the city. In the occupied Gaza Strip, merchants began a seven-day commercial strike after pro-PLO leaders of the Palestinian uprising called for the move in slogans painted on walls. The strike is to protest the Israeli collection of taxes from Palestinians. Non-payment of taxes is a major tactic of the revolt against Israel rule. The Israeli newspaper Maariv said today the PLO has foiled Israeli efforts to block its funding of the uprising by using Israeli-Arab businessmen, international organizations and ultra-Orthodox Jews to transfer money. Mohammed Yaub Salhoub, 15, died early today at Mukassed Hospital in east Jerusalem, a day after being shot in the head by troops during clashes in the Nuseirat refugee camp in the occupied Gaza Strip, hospital officials said. The army confirmed the death but said it was checking the circumstances. The death brought to 352 the number of Palestinians killed in the 13-month uprising. Fifteen Israelis have also died in the unrest. The monument to soldiers of the Arab Legion outside the Rockefeller Museum was partially smashed, said police spokesman Alex Lapidot. He said police had no suspects. An anonymous caller told Israel army radio the monument was damaged by ``lovers of the land of Israel and the Jewish people.'' The caller said the attack was carried out to protest the dismantling by troops two days ago of a monument erected by Jewish settlers in honor of an Israeli taxi driver slain in the West Bank. Settlers have vowed to erect additional monuments to Jews killed in the occupied lands in defiance of an army ban. ``The people who did this are stupid, they are idiots,'' said Kollek. He said the city would offer to repair the monument. Police imposed a curfew in east Jerusalem's Silwan neighborhood after they arrested 14 people, including nine said to be firebomb throwers. It was only the third time a curfew was clamped on a Jerusalem neighborhood during the uprising. Curfews are a frequent measure of control and punishment in the occupied lands. In a newspaper interview published today, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir accused the United States of prolonging the uprising by opening a dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization last month. ``It gave a great push and great encouragement to people who perhaps had reached a point where they were considering desisting from this way (the uprising),'' he was quoted as saying in the Jerusalem Post. The United States ended a 13-year ban on contacts with the PLO after its chief, Yasser Arafat, last month renounced terrorism and recognized Israel's right to exist. The Maariv newspaper and Palestinian journalists said the closing of Arab banks and limits put on money Palestinians can bring into Israel have not halted PLO funding of the uprising. Maariv said a fringe group of ultra-Orthodox Jews, who believe the state of Israel cannot exist until the coming of the Messiah, transfer money to Palestinian activists, but demand a 25 percent fee for religious seminaries. It said Arab public figures from northern Israel and Israeli-Arab businessmen belonging to the Islamic Opposition Movement have pumped millions of dollars into the uprising by laundering money through legitimate businesses. Also today, Palestinian notables considered moderates confirmed they met earlier this week in Jerusalem with leaders of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), a pro-Israel lobby in Washington that has spearheaded the fight to block the PLO's diplomatic gains. The meeting took place at the Jerusalem residence of U.S. Consul Philip Wilcox and also included PLO supporters, said one of the participants, West Bank lawyer Jonathan Kuttab. Kuttab said such meetings are useful because only staunch supporters of Israel, such as AIPAC, could eventually persuade Israeli leaders to drop their resistance to talks with the PLO. ``The only people who can change Israel's views are friends like AIPAC,'' he said. ``Criticism from any other source could reinforce Israel's paranoia and fears.''
<relevant> Police armed with batons and water cannons attacked hundreds of people who staged a rally Sunday to commemorate the 20th anniversary of an anti-Soviet protest in which Jan Palach committed suicide. At least one person was badly injured and several others beaten by hundreds of police who tried to break up the rally by up to 1,000 people. Western reporters also saw plainclothes and riot police make at least a dozen arrests. The rally was held in defiance of an official ban. Police had guarded Wenceslas Square in the capital since early Saturday in an attempt to prevent the independent rally for Palach, who set himself on fire in the square on Jan. 16, 1969, to protest Soviet troops in his country. Soviet-led Warsaw pact troops invaded Czechoslovakia in August 1968 to crush the communist-led reforms known as the ``Prague Spring.'' Sunday's violence occurred after a crowd of 800 to 1,000 people moved toward the center of the square. They shouted ``Freedom, freedom'' and sang the Czechoslovak national anthem. Police carrying batons immediately moved in from side streets and started pushing the crowd back, beating several people. Police were seen beating two people trying to help an old woman who fell. At the edge of the square, meanwhile, police kept back hundreds of others behind metal barricades. About 10 minutes later, three police water cannons started spraying that crowd, pushing people down side streets. Other police with dogs and batons moved in, clearing the top of the square near the statue of King Wenceslas within about 20 minutes. Communist authorities banned the rally, but the Charter 77 human rights movement and four other independent groups who called it said they would go ahead anyway. Similar banned rallies in August and October drew thousands of people, who also were dispersed by riot police.
<relevant> East German police used clubs and a water cannon to break up a demonstration Sunday by several hundred human rights activists in downtown Leipzig, witnesses said. They said police arrested about 80 people. The demonstrators were protesting the arrest of 11 dissidents, the witnesses said on condition of anonymity. They told The Associated Press by telephone that those detained were taken away in police trucks. The West German ARD television network said about 500 people took part in the protest. Communist authorities on Friday and Saturday arrested the 11 dissidents, seven men and four women, in connection with the distribution of leaflets calling for a demonstration Sunday to demand more democracy, according to West Berlin sources. The sources, who also requested anonymity, said the 11 were not directly linked to the group that printed the leaflets, but included well-known local human rights activists. The group that printed the leaflets calls itself ``The Initiative for the Democratic Renewal of Our Society.'' East German security officers searched the apartments of numerous dissidents in Leipzig and placed many of them under increased surveillance before Sunday, sources said. Meanwhile, in East Berlin, Communist Party leader Erich Honecker led several thousand people in a traditional march to mark the 70th anniversary of the murders of German Communist Party founders Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht. There were no reports of incidents. Human rights activists infiltrated last year's march and unfurled banners calling for more democracy. Communist authorities then arrested about 150 dissidents and later expelled them to West Germany.
<relevant> George Bush is dampening expectations of dramatic moves during his first 100 days in the White House, tacitly acknowledging that he will be busy wrestling with Congress over the huge budget deficit. With the House and Senate both controlled by Democrats, Bush will face ``a nine-month siege, not a 100-day breakthrough,'' predicted Mitchell Daniels, a former political adviser for President Reagan who also worked in the Bush-Quayle campaign. Indeed, the incoming president himself said in a recent interview that he would ``feel like a spring colt'' if it were not for the fiscal challenges accompanying his elevation on Friday to what he called ``the ultimate'' job. Even as he struggles with the deficit, Bush also will give priority to refining his strategy for dealing with the Soviet Union in the rapidly changing climate under Mikhail Gorbachev, officials said. Moscow's recent readiness to disarm has boosted Western hopes that new negotiations to reduce conventional arms in Europe will enjoy more success than the 15-year-old talks they replace. NATO and the Warsaw Pact initialed a mandate for negotiations on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe on Saturday after a Greek-Turkish dispute was solved by an ambiguous compromise. Unlike the inconclusive Central European troop reduction talks, the new negotiations demand full participation from all 16 NATO countries and all seven Warsaw Pact nations. Countries whose troops were not involved held only observer status in the old talks. The sole European country now excluded is Albania, the only European nation not to sign the 1975 Helsinki Final Act. Riot police used batons, dogs and water cannons Sunday to crush a rally commemorating the death 20 years ago of a student who set himself afire to protest the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia. At least one person was badly injured and several others, including members of a West German television crew, were beaten by police wielding rubber truncheons. CTK, the Czechoslovak state news agency, denounced the rallies as a ``thwarted provocation'' and said 91 people were detained. Sirens wailed throughout central Prague and several ambulances were seen as the crowds moved through the streets, stopped repeatedly by riot police and water cannons. The human capacity for language may come from a genetic mutation that occurred in a woman who lived in Africa about 200,000 years ago, a researcher said Sunday. Her descendants went on to colonize Europe and Asia, perhaps aided by an ability to speak that had not yet appeared in humans in those areas, said Allan C. Wilson, a biochemist at the University of California, Berkeley. Wilson's intriguing speculations about language are based on exhaustive comparisons of genetic material from people around the world. Two years ago, Wilson attracted the interest of scientists and the public when he concluded that all humans are descendants of a woman in Africa, who was inevitably dubbed ``Eve.'' People infected with AIDS may be able to slow the progression of the deadly disease by positive thinking, exercise, support from friends and other ways of reducing stress, studies presented Sunday suggest. But some AIDS researchers at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science cast doubt on the theory and others cautioned that such improvements often are small. ``The jury is still out'' on whether positive thinking and other ways of coping with stress might delay development of AIDS in infected people or postpone death in those who have the disease, said Janice Kiecolt-Glaser, a clinical psychologist at the Ohio State University College of Medicine. ``We encourage people (infected with the AIDS virus) to do things that may be helpful and certainly can't be harmful,'' such as exercising, getting adequate sleep and nutrition and avoiding drugs and alcohol, said Dr. Karl Goodkin, a psychiatrist at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.
<irrelevant> An African student from Benin has been summarily sentenced to 15 days in prison following a bloody Christmas Eve brawl between Chinese and Africans in Nanking, an African diplomat said today. It was the first report that a second African had been formally arrested in connection with the brawl that left 11 Chinese and two Africans injured. The diplomat, Benin's first secretary, Gobo Bio Mamah, also quoted African students as saying that Chinese police stripped and tortured two students from Benin when they attacked 140 mostly African students at a guest house outside Nanking on Saturday. ``We have heard that they were made to walk almost naked in the cold as police poked them with electric cattle prods,'' Mamah said. ``They were doing this to make them talk. It appears to be torture.'' The brawl at Nanking's Hehai University sparked five days of anti-black protests and resulted in most of the city's African students being forced by police to the guest house on Dec. 26. The students had wanted to flee the east-central city for Beijing, but were stopped by police at Nanking's railway station. African students said about 400 Chinese police attacked them Saturday in the guest house and removed about half of them, returning some to their universities and sending others to another hotel. The student witnesses said Chinese police beat and detained seven or eight of their classmates. One witness said police charged the students as loudspeakers broadcast platitudes about China's great friendship with African nations. Another said he saw about seven police beating one student from the Congo. Chinese news reports said only that a student from Ghana, Alex Dzabaku Dosoo, had been arrested and three other students held for questioning. No mention was made of a student from Benin. But Mamah said officials from the Public Security Department in Beijing told him Sunday that student Ludovic Dossoumon had been sentenced without trial to 15 days in prison as ``punishment.'' Chinese authorities in Beijing refused to specify Dossoumon's alleged crimes, he said. ``They told me the authorities in Nanking were the only ones who could say anything,'' Mamah said. ``This action is unacceptable.'' Chinese authorities at the Ministry of Public Security said they were ``not clear'' about the arrests. At least 50 students from Hehai remained at the guest house today, apparently because they still wanted to go to Beijing. The rest apparently were at another hotel or at their universities. Jiangsu province said today that they also were ``not clear'' about the arrests and the exact whereabouts of the students, some of whom were from Western Europe, Japan and South Asia. A Ghanian diplomat said China had broken an agreement to keep the students at the guest house until a delegation representing nine African countries returned to Nanking. The delegation came to Nanking last Tuesday for negotiations, returned to Beijing and was planning to go again to Nanking later this week. ``We don't know why they broke the agreement,'' said the diplomat, Y.N. Ohene-Akrasi. ``But in light of the apparent police attack this is the least of our concerns.'' Chinese officials in Nanking have made it clear that no Chinese will be punished for the clash and subsequent demonstrations during which Chinese students destroyed property in African student dormitories and shouted, ``Down with black devils!'' In Hangzhou, capital of Zhejiang province, a standoff continued between 56 black Africans and Chinese at the Zhejiang Agricultural College. The students have locked themselves in their dormitory since Dec. 26 because they allege Chinese officials say they have the deadly disease AIDS. College officials have denied the claim. The weeklong incidents in Nanking and in Hangzhou are the latest in a series of incidents between Chinese and China's 1,500 African students, brought here to demonstrate China's solidarity with the Third World. Relations between Chinese and Africans are tense. Chinese are often openly racist and Africans are frustrated by a culture that is very different from their own.
<irrelevant> Sudan's prime minister told trade union leaders Monday the economy still needs price increases, but his listeners hinted that imposing them might lead to a recurrence of violent strikes. Steep price increases announced Dec. 26 led to demonstrations and a general strike. Four people died and scores were injured before union leaders called off the protests Saturday, two days after the government rescinded the price increases. On Monday, more than 500 leaders of trade and professional organizations met with Prime Minister Sadek Mahdi to discuss the impact of the violence and the government's failure to endorse an initiative to end civil war in southern Sudan. In addition to the rollback on prices, the government gave in to a demand by the Sudanese Workers' Trade Union Federation to make salary increases of up to 500 percent retroactive to July 1, instead of Dec. 1 as the government had ordered. While Mahdi conceded the price increases may have been too high _ as much as 600 percent for sugar _ he said prices on some items had to be raised. He promised to stay away from important foods, however, and said subsidies on sorghum, the Sudanese staple, and medicines wouldn't be touched. ``There are other possibilities and other more reasonable (price) increases that I don't want to go into now,'' Mahdi said. He said the price of sugar, extremely important in the Sudanese culture, must be increased to cover its production costs and to prevent smuggling into neighboring countries. ``Any steps must not affect the workers and struggling people and add to their burdens,'' said Abdel-Wahab Sinada, representative of the professional associations. ``We reject any increase in prices. We are ready for civil disobedience and general strikes.'' Professional groups carry considerable weight in Sudan and played a decisive role in the 1985 military coup that ousted the authoritarian pro-Western president, Gaafar Nimeiri. Tradesmen and students were the major forces behind last week's disturbances. Western observers fear the trade and professional unions might join forces with the Democratic Unionist Party, still angered over Mahdi's handling of the peace agreement it reached a month and a half ago with the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army. During the strike, the Unionists resigned from the coalition Cabinet headed by the Umma Party in sympathy with the demonstrators and outrage over the prime minister's stand on the peace agreement. Mahdi apparently refused to officially endorse the agreement because of a clause advocating suspension of the 1,400-year-old Islamic legal code, which was sure to anger the fundamentalist National Islamic Front _ the third-largest Cabinet partner and Mahdi's buffer against his traditional opponents, the Democratic Unionists. Publicly, Mahdi says he objects to the pact's clauses eliminating defense treaties with other countries and ending emergency rule, which has been Nimeiri's overthrow in 1985. The unions have been demanding immediate implementation of the peace plan and a cease-fire in the 5{-year-old civil war on ground it would save the country $275 million a year. Sudan's foreign debt is $14 billion, and Khartoum owes more than $900 million in interest it can't pay. ``It is slowly but surely building up into another explosive situation,'' a Western political observer said on condition of anonymity. ``The (Democratic Unionist Party) is gathering forces with the southern and communist parties and the trade and professional unions, calling for implementing the peace initiative. This will sooner or later spill into the streets in demonstrations, and this could be ugly.'' John Garang, leader of the Sudan People's Liberation Army, called for Mahdi's resignation in a New Year's Day radio broadcast from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. He suggested direct peace talks with Sudanese army generals, ``especially those fighting in the south.'' Defending his views on the agreement, Mahdi told union leaders, ``We do not disagree on the peace issue, but there are specific points in the initiative that have to be resolved.'' He agreed to form a committee with the union leaders to discuss possible solutions to the civil war and the economic situation.
<irrelevant> Prime Minister Sadek Mahdi is stalling on reforms needed to mollify a populace fed up with a lingering civil war and a foundering economy, while Moslem fundamentalists in his coalition fight proposed changes. Sudanese and Western experts agree he needs to come up with solutions, and soon. Otherwise, they fear a return of street violence like that which gripped the country for four days last week. Many Sudanese believe Mahdi allowed the war and the economic problems to drag on too long, taking no decisive action until the course of events pushed him into it. What finally turned the streets into arenas of broken glass and burning barricades was Mahdi's imposition of steep price increases at a time when unrest already seethed over his refusal to endorse officially a draft peace agreement negotiated by a coalition partner. ``What we need is action,'' said Mohamed Omer Beshir, a veteran political observer and lecturer at Khartoum University's Institute of African and Asian Studies. ``We need any action to stop the war. ``Every day of the war makes the economic situation worse, and if things get worse, the people will not stay silent. They will react.'' But Beshir doesn't expect new demonstrations right away. ``The prime minister ... doesn't have the support of the people any more,'' Beshir said. ``But as for demonstrations again, not necessarily. Things in Sudan aren't always that logical.'' A Western diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity, wasn't so sure. ``It's basically an explosive situation,'' he said. ``The reasons the people took to the streets last week still are there. While the situation might be dormant today, it could reignite any time.'' Last week's trouble followed smaller food riots late last year and severe and widespread criticism of Mahdi because he refused to endorse the peace agreement. It was signed Nov. 16 by the Democratic Unionist Party and Sudan People's Liberation Army and followed several failed efforts by Mahdi to come to terms with the rebels. Despite support for the agreement from across the Sudanese political spectrum except for the fundamentalist National Islamic Front, Mahdi stalled until too late to convene a constitutional peace conference Dec. 31, as the agreement required. The Democratic Unionists quit the coalition. Most observers in Sudan see Mahdi's refusal to act on the peace agreement was an attempt to satisfy the fundamentalist coalition partner at the expense of the centrist Democratic Unionists. The Islamic Front flatly rejected the pact because it would freeze the country's legal code, which is based on Islam's 1,350-year-old code of ethics and laws by which Moslems are supposed to live. ``El-Mahdi is like someone trying to ride two horses. No one knows how long he can keep this up,'' said Beshir. ``We need immediate action, but it doesn't look like el-Mahdi will provide it soon.'' As tensions built, the prime minister announced that salaries were being increased by up to 500 percent, then followed the news two days later with steep price increases on sugar and cigarettes and a 15 percent sales tax on locally manufactured commodities. ``If the people had been hopeful on peace, maybe the government would have gotten away with the price increases,'' the Western diplomat said. ``This way, they just made the people too angry to sit and take it any more.'' The street violence enticed the government to roll back the price increases and make the salary increases retroactive to July 1, and the disturbances slowly stopped. ``It was all very Sudanese to see how things all went back to normal on Saturday, with the usual terrible traffic and people at their desks,'' said the diplomat. ``It looked like all hell had broken loose on Thursday, and there was chaos.'' Indicative of restiveness in the army was that the generals refused to honor Mahdi's request that they intervene to help police put down the trouble. ``The military refused to get involved,'' said a Western military source. ``The price increases affected the military as well, and they didn't like it a bit.'' The foreign expert said the Sudanese military viewed the tentative agreement as ``a means to end the war, but Sadek didn't take it. The current government is the third reshuffle since Mahdi was elected in April 1986, after Mahdi brought in the National Islamic Front last year as a counter to his traditional enemy, the Democratic Unionists. Dalia Baligh is based in Cairo, Egypt, and makes frequent news-gathering trips to Sudan.
<irrelevant> Police officers stomped on a handcuffed suspect for 10 minutes while he lay screaming on the ground, then told him to wash his face before booking him, Massachusetts' attorney general has charged. In a civil rights complaint filed Wednesday in Superior Court, Attorney General James Shannon said 13 officers either allowed or took part in the beating. The man was accused of running a red light and trying to elude police. Shannon accused the officers of using excessive force, conspiring to keep the incident quiet and depriving the man of his civil rights. ``This case is particularly disturbing because of the number of officers involved and the failure even to conduct an investigation,'' the attorney general said. The suit asks the court to bar the 13 officers from further violations and prohibit them from handling arrests until they take a court-approved course in the use of force. The officers have 30 days to respond to the complaint. They will remain on active duty pending any court action, police said. Boston Police Commissioner Francis M. Roache is frustrated that the victim has refused to cooperate with the department, which contacted him after he wrote to the attorney general, said police spokesman James Jordan. The suit said that John L. Smith Jr., 25, allegedly ran a red light early on May 12 and sped off when a cruiser tried to pull him over. More than a dozen cruisers gave chase for about 15 minutes until Smith's car hit a curb. According to the complaint, Smith turned off the engine and sat in the car, but officers smashed the windows and hauled him out. One officer then began beating Smith on the back of his head and knees with his baton, the complant said. More officers arrived and Smith was handcuffed. Several officers surrounded him, delivering kicks and other blows, the complaint charged. Eventually 13 officers were present, some of whom stood about chatting during the beating, the suit said. Officers took Smith to a police station for booking. He was told to wash his face for photographing, the complaint said. Smith was treated at a hospital for for cuts, bruises, pain and blurry vision. Police charged Smith with such offenses as operating under the influence of drugs, failing to stop for a red light and assault.
<irrelevant> Three African students held by police in connection with a brawl that triggered racial unrest in four cities have admitted they broke the law, an official report said Thursday. One of the three remained under arrest in the eastern city of Nanking, apparently facing trial, while two others were being punished with 15 days of ``disciplinary detention,'' the Xinhua News Agency said. A fourth African was released and returned to his school Thursday night, the report said. In related developments, about 45 African students held 10 days at a guesthouse following the brawl returned to their university in Nanking on Thursday. In Hangzhou, about 150 miles to the southeast, African students ended a 10-day class boycott after their college's president agreed to give them a direct telephone line and write an open letter saying none had AIDS. One African country warned it might recall its students because of the treatment of African students. Besides Hangzhou and Nanking, racial incidents have occurred in Beijing and Wuhan, an industrial city in central China. The incidents began Dec. 24 in Nanking, when African students refused to register their Chinese girlfriends to attend a dance at Hehai University. The disagreement led to a fight and nearly a week of anti-African protests by Chinese youths. Xinhua said Alex Dosoo of Ghana beat and seriously hurt a university worker during the brawl. He was the only African to be arrested. The news agency said Alpha Robinson of Gambia and Dossoumou Boni Lodovic of Benin ``tried to stir up trouble'' during the fight and were being given 15 days detention under China's public order regulations. All three admitted they broke the law, it said without elaborating. The four were among about 140 students, most from Africa, who tried to flee to Beijing in the face of the Chinese protests but were taken by police to a guest house outside Nanking and held incommunicado. The four were taken into custody Saturday at the guest house by about 400 police who, according to fellow students and African diplomats, used electric cattle prods and wooden clubs. Chinese officials deny any violence was used. Police brought most of the other students back to Nanking but 45 remained at the guest house until Thursday, when they returned to school voluntarily in order to meet with a group of African diplomats. Hehai students said Thursday that hundreds more paramilitary police had flooded the guest house Sunday. ``Police were everywhere, in the building, in the corridors, on the landings, in the lounges and on some balconies,'' said Carl Ameho of Ghana. He said students were prohibited from making telephone calls and could only go outside to walk to the dining hall. ``It was a real jail,'' Ameho said. Some students said that on their first day back at Hehai University, Chinese students yelled: ``Black devil, you've returned!'' and ``Black devil, get lost!'' ``We are still very scared here,'' said a student from Gambia. ``Today I rode outside the university and came home quickly because so many people were calling me a `black devil,''' he said. Ameho said Liang Ruiju, Hehai's president, met with African students and told them that under the university's new regulations, Africans must introduce their Chinese girlfriends to university officials. Chinese women can lose their jobs or be subjected to ridicule if they openly have relationships with foreign men. In Hangzhou, a conflict at Zhejiang Agricultural College was resolved with authorities making concessions to the African students for the first time. African students said the trouble in Hangzhou began when Chinese telephone operators told Chinese callers that all the Africans had AIDS. The university has denied the allegation. In Beijing on Thursday, African students at the Beijing Languages Institute continued a class boycott triggered by Chinese allegations that a black student accosted a Chinese woman in her room. In Wuhan, the Hubei province foreign affairs office acknowledged that Chinese students threw rocks at foreign student dormitories last week. It said a Sri Lankan student at Central China Polytechnical College was injured by glass from a broken window Dec. 29. In Ghana, the state-run radio station reported that the government may recall the 26 Ghanian students soudying in China. Diplomats from Ghana and Benin said China's handling of the incidents could damage Sino-African ties. ``The way this is going this could lead to something very nasty,'' said a diplomat from Benin. China denies all charges of racial prejudice, and expresses pride at its long-established policy of showing solidarity with the Third World by giving scholarships to African students. There are about 1,500 African students from 40 nations now in China. Africans complain that they are subject to racial discrimination, and social contacts between African men and Chinese women are a frequent source of tension. Chinese also resent the fact that Africans, many from countries as poor as China, receive far better food and lodging than Chinese students.
</top>
<top>
<num> 68
<title> Health Hazards from Fine-Diameter Fibers
<relevant> Federal health officials have reported for the first time that some leather tannery workers exposed on the job to a controversial solvent are at increased risk for testicular cancer. An estimated 90,000 or more U.S. workers are exposed to the chemical solvent dimethlyformamide, or DMF. The national Centers for Disease Control said Thursday that while tannery workers exposed to the solvent are at ``elevated risk,'' DMF cannot currently be shown as a ``definitive'' cause, and the exact risks require further evaluation. DMF is also used in the aircraft industry. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health believes that about 94,000 U.S. workers are potentially exposed to the solvent. Three cases of testicular cancer were diagnosed in workers at a leather tannery in upstate New York's Fulton County between 1982 and 1984, triggering a state and federal investigation. The tannery had used DMF to help dyes seep into the leather being processed there. Three such cases among 80 workers on the plant's finishing line between 1975-87 is 41 times greater than would be expected statistically, which ``indicates an elevated risk for testicular cancer among finishing line workers,'' the CDC said. Further, a survey of medical records found seven additional cases of testicular cancer in Fulton County males aged 20-54 between 1974 and 1987. ``Five of the 10 case-patients ... had been employed in leather-related occupations,'' the CDC said in its report Thursday, prepared with NIOSH. Two of those five patients were from tanneries other than the original investigation site, Calvert said. The CDC report noted that the tannery, identified in news reports as the Pan American tannery of Gloversville, had withdrawn its DMF dyes and replaced them with other materials, and other nearby facilities have done the same or are considering it.
<relevant> A Senate subcommittee chairman lashed out at Boeing Co. on Monday just moments after a top official of the Seattle-based aerospace firm testified there was no evidence to link the use of a high-tech composite material with workers' health problems. ``I am somewhat resentful of your testimony,'' said Nevada Democratic Sen. Harry Reid, chairman of the toxic substances, environmental oversight, research and development subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Public Works Committee. Reid said he felt Boeing was ``minimizing'' the effects the materials can have on workers by pleading ignorance and emphasizing the disagreements in the medical community. Joseph Peritore, Boeing's vice president for human resources, told the subcommittee his company had decided to discontinue use of the material even though it was ``determined that the material presented no significant health hazard.'' Peritore also said doctors were divided on the effects composite materials can have on workers and that Boeing had ``not only met, but significantly exceeded'' regulatory standards governing use of the material. Peritore said that Boeing, in ending its use of a resin that contains phenol and formaldehyde, was responding to workers' complaints. ``The fact that we believed the material was safe became irrelevant,'' said Peritore. ``In the highly-charged atmosphere that existed, we felt the only way to alleviate our employees' concerns was to remove the material from the shop altogether. And we did.'' Reid told reporters after the hearing, that he felt testimony from an official of the Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. showed that firm ``recognized the problem'' and was trying to do something about it. ``The difference between Lockheed and Boeing was like night and day,'' said Reid. The subcommittee hearing stemmed from complaints by Boeing workers in the Seattle area and employees at a production site for the new stealth fighter operated by Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. in Burbank, Calif. The materials are mixtures of plastic, carbon and synthetic fibers which increasingly are being used to replace metal in aircaft. Nearly 100 workers are suing Lockheed, claiming workplace chemicals resulted in ailments ranging from dizziness, nausea and bloody urine to skin and organ injuries and cancer. Lawyers representing the workers say at least five have died of cancer since the lawsuit was filed in 1986. Boeing workers at plants in the Puget Sound region, including Kent, Everett, Renton and Auburn, have had similar health complaints. Dr. Gordon Baker, a Burien, Wash., allergist whose patients include more than 130 Boeing employees, said composite materials are causing ``widespread, serious'' health problems for aerospace workers. ``Chemicals are being used without adequate health and safety data, without proper testing, and without giving some workers the necessary protective equipment, ventiliation and training that are essential to safely using these toxic industrial materials,'' said Baker. Baker said his patients showed a ``definite pattern of symptoms'' that were ``unprecedented and unexpected'' in a general allergy practice. ``There are widespread, serious health problems throughout the industry now that they are using the new composite materials,'' said Baker. Baker said that of the Boeing employees he has seen, 75 percent suffer from extreme fatigue, 68 percent had memory lapses, 67 had chest pains or trouble breathing and 68 percent had vision problems. In addition, Baker said there was evidence that some of the employees may be suffering from ``organic brain poisoning,'' which can result in varying degrees of ``incapacity to perform and think up to previous abilities. ``It is of the greatest urgency that adequate safety is insured in the workplace wherever these materials are used,'' Baker said. ``The unfortunate victims of these chemical poisons should be properly cared for and not be subjected to harrassment, demotion, termination, or forced to continue working in unhealthy work environments until they can work no more.'' Two women who worked at Boeing's Auburn plant testified they were never warned that the chemicals could be dangerous. ``I had no idea what chemicals we had in the shop,'' said Beverly McCormick of North Bend, Wash. Ms. McCormick said the exposure to chemicals left her with a number of medical problems and an overall lack of energy. ``I can't play with my own granddaughter for more than a few minutes,'' she said. Bonnie Faye Schrum, who lives in Renton, Wash., said workers were discouraged from reporting their health problems and were warned they would be fired if they did. ``I'm not the same person I was five years ago,'' said Ms. Schrum. ``I can't go to the grocery store without getting sick, I can't sleep at night, you don't eat, you have no energy. ``My memory is a mess, I don't know my kids, some days I don't even know I am in my home,'' she said.
<relevant> The active ingredient in some commercial sunscreens can break down into a substance that causes cancer, according to a study that has prompted further testing to determine whether there is any risk to users. In tests by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 14 of 17 sunscreens containing the sun-blocking agent padimate O, itself used to prevent skin cancer from overexposure, were found to contain a newly discovered nitrosamine, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported Thursday. Nitrosamines are a class of compounds notorious for their cancer-causing ability. Roughly 90 percent of the 300 nitrosamines tested so far have been shown to cause cancer in animals. ``We have a saying in this field _ guilty until proven innocent,'' said Stephen S. Hecht, director of research at the American Health Foundation in Valhalla, N.Y. ``You just never know,'' he told the Post-Dispatch. ``Basically, any nitrosamine is cause for concern.'' But representatives of major health organizations and the sunscreen industry said people who want to protect themselves from sun-caused skin cancers should continue to use commercially available sunscreens until more testing is done. Scientists said testing so far has not established whether the newly discovered nitrosamine is a strong enough carcinogen to present any substantial risk to people who use sunscreens. William Lijinsky, an authority on nitrosamines at the federally owned Frederick Cancer Research Facility in Frederick, Md., said the nitrosamine, which goes by the initials NPABAO, probably was a ``very weak carcinogen.'' ``Compounds of this structure would have a very low activity or are inactive,'' Lijinsky said. Representatives of the American Dermatological Academy and the American Cancer Society said they were unaware of the nitrosamine in sunscreens. They said that until officials reviewed any information that sunscreens were harmful, the groups would continue to recommend the use of sunscreens to protect against damage from the sun. ``If you want to scare people into not using sunscreens, the public health implications are super,'' said Gerald McEwen, vice president of science for the Washington-based Cosmetics, Toiletries and Fragrance Association. Padimate O, the sun-blocking agent, is found in some, but not all, sunscreen products, he noted. The association collaborated with the Food and Drug Administration to discover NPABAO in sunscreens, then communicated information about it industrywide. McEwen stressed that nitrosamines were a large class of chemicals found widely in the natural environment and that most human exposure occurred naturally, such as by eating vegetables and other foods. But three other experts said that because NPABAO is probably carcinogenic. The three are Hecht, of the private, non-profit American Health Foundation; Richard N. Loeppky, a professor of chemistry at the University of Missouri at Columbia; and John S. Wishnok, a biochemist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in Cambridge, Mass. Nitrosamines first gained widespread notice in the 1970s. They were found in tobacco smoke and snuff, vegetables and processed meats, alcoholic beverages, cosmetics, pesticides, baby-bottle nipples, synthetic grinding fluids, tire manufacturing plants and even new cars. The FDA has yet to determine the origin of the NPABAO, or whether it is easily absorbed through the skin and into the bloodstream, as some other nitrosamines are. Officials of the FDA have declined to identify the sunscreen brands in the tests. Results of the tests were first reported in May at the Eppley Institute for Research in Cancer in Omaha, Neb.
<relevant> The government Friday proposed fining the military aircraft division of Lockheed Corp. $1.5 million for worker-safety violations at the California plant where it builds the radar-evading stealth fighter. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration said it is also starting a ``wall-to-wall'' inspection of the entire Burbank, Calif., facility because of the more than 400 violations uncovered during a four-month investigation of a classified area where the fighter is assembled. Under OSHA procedures, Lockheed has 15 working days to contest the proposed fine. Lockheed spokeman Jim Ragsdale said the company had no immediate comment on the alleged violations and likely would not comment until its management had an opportunity to review the citations. OSHA cited 251 instances in which it said Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. willfully failed to record illnesses and injuries to employees and 88 alleged willful violations of federal regulations requiring employers to inform workers about the potential dangers of chemicals they work with and instruct them on proper safeguards. In addition, the company was cited for another 99 violations of various OSHA standards, including alleged mislabeling or failure to label chemical containers and alleged failure to include health warnings on information the company was required to provide to its workers. Other alleged violations included failing to list suspected carcinogens on safety sheets provided to workers, overexposing workers to asbestos and failure to provide workers with gloves impervious to a hazardous chemical used on the fighter. The proposed fine follows a highly publicized OSHA inspection that followed numerous complaints from workers at the plant, which employs about 14,000 people. In October, a month after the inspection began, John C. Brizendine, the president of the division, said: ``We have seen nothing to indicate the materials we work with are fundamentally unsafe of pose a health hazard provided proper procedures are followed.'' A month later, the government for the first time publicly acknowledged the existence of the stealth fighter, a single-seat, dual-engine jet that resembles a bat and is formally designated the F-117A. The Defense Department has ordered 59 stealth fihters; 52 had been delivered as of the November announcement. The fighter uses so-called stealth technology to help it evade enemy radar, including radar-absorbing materials and other coatings. Seventy-five employees at the Burbank plant have a suit pending against Lockheed and companies that make and supply the chemicals used to help the fighter avoid radar detection. More than 100 workers have filed workers compensation claims alleging they suffer from injuries caused by the chemicals. The suit and the claims allege composite materials used in the fighter and chemicals used to mill and clean those materials cause rashes, nausea, dizziness, memory loss and concentration problems. OSHA spokesman Frank Kane said the $1.49 million fine represented the ninth-largest in the agency's 17-year history and the largest ever levied in California. The record fine was $5.1 million against two companies involved in an April 1987 Bridgeport, Conn., building collapse.
<relevant> The maker of the stealth fighter is facing a $1.5 million fine for more than 400 alleged violations of worker-safety laws at the California plant where it assembled the radar-evading plane. The fine against a division of the Lockheed Corp. was proposed Friday by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which also announced it was launching a ``wall-to-wall'' inspection of the Burbank plant because of the alleged violations found during a four-month review of the stealth project. Under OSHA procedures, Lockheed has 15 working days to contest the proposed fine. Lockheed spokesman Jim Ragsdale said the company had no immediate comment and likely would not comment until its management had an opportunity to review the citations. OSHA cited 251 instances in which it said Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Co. willfully failed to record illnesses and injuries to employees and 88 alleged willful violations of federal regulations requiring employers to inform workers about the potential dangers of chemicals they work with and instruct them on proper safeguards. In addition, the company was cited for another 99 violations of various OSHA standards, including alleged mislabeling or failure to label chemical containers and alleged failure to include health warnings on information the company was required to provide to its workers. Other alleged violations included failing to list suspected carcinogens on safety sheets provided to workers, overexposing workers to asbestos and failure to provide workers with gloves impervious to a hazardous chemical used on the fighter. The proposed fine follows an OSHA inspection based on numerous complaints from workers at the plant, which employs about 14,000 people. In October, a month after the inspection began, John C. Brizendine, the president of the division, said: ``We have seen nothing to indicate the materials we work with are fundamentally unsafe or pose a health hazard, provided proper procedures are followed.'' A month later the government for the first time publicly acknowledged the existence of the stealth fighter, a single-seat, dual-engine jet that resembles a bat and is formally designated the F-117A. The Defense Department has ordered 59 stealth fighters; 52 had been delivered as of the November showing. Seventy-five employees at the plant have a suit pending against Lockheed and companies that make and supply the chemicals used to help the fighter avoid radar detection. More than 100 workers have filed workers compensation claims alleging they suffer from injuries caused by the chemicals. The suit and the claims allege composite materials used in the fighter and chemicals used to mill and clean those materials cause rashes, nausea, dizziness, memory loss and concentration problems. OSHA spokesman Frank Kane said the fine represented the ninth-largest in the agency's 17-year history and the largest ever levied in California. The record fine was $5.1 million against two companies involved in an April 1987 Bridgeport, Conn., building collapse.
<irrelevant> The Labor Department, responding to concerns by health care workers about contracting AIDS and other blood-borne diseases, is proposing new safety regulations requiring that all blood and body fluids be handled as if they were infected. The proposal would affect the 5.3 million health care workers at 620,000 worksites who have frequent contact with potentially infectious materials, the Labor Department said. ``Any standard should meet the critical needs by giving health care workers the protection they want and have every right to expect,'' Labor Secretary Ann McLaughlin said Monday in announcing the proposal. ``It can literally be a lifesaver.'' A department spokesman said a draft of the proposed regulations would be published in the Federal Register in about two weeks. Public comment will be accepted before the department decides on final language. Current worker-safety laws in general require employers to provide safety equipment and worker education when there are potential hazards, but there are no specific regulations concerning blood-borne diseases. The Occupational Health and Safety Administration, an agency within the Labor Department, promised last year to draft the regulations as part of a program to address concerns raised by health care workers. McLaughlin said the proposed regulation would require the use of safety equipment, worker training in handling infected blood and body fluids and other specific precautions tailored to the specific worksite. About 12,000 health care workers are infected with Hepatitis-B each year, resulting in approximately 200 deaths annually, according to government figures. The department had no specific figures on the number of health care workers who contract AIDS because of their jobs. ``Where diseases like AIDS and Hepatitis-B are concerned, our health care professionals are truly on the front line,'' McLaughlin said. ``They're working to contain the problem. We must ensure that they are not victims of it.''
<irrelevant> International Business Machines Corp. will buy 25 percent of a fiber-optics company owned by Corning Glass Works, the companies said Tuesday in a signal of the growing importance of fiber to the computing world. The value of the deal was not disclosed. PCO Inc., a 175-employee company based in the Chatsworth area of Los Angeles, specializes in devices that convert electronic signals to light and vice versa. Until now, fiber optics have been used mainly for long-distance telephone lines. IBM's investment signals the company's idea that the speed permitted by fiber optics will be useful in the computer field, spokesman Paul Bergevin said today. Corning, based in Corning, N.Y., made an additional investment in PCO and will keep a 65 percent interest in the company. The remaining 10 percent will be owned by PCO employees, founders and other individuals. Instead of using wires, computer users are beginning to connect clusters of personal computers and workstations with high-capacity fiber-optic cables, said John Kessler, president of Kessler Marketing Intelligence in Newport, R.I. ``That market grew about 100 percent between 1987 and 1988 and will continue very heavy growth over the next five years,'' Kessler said. A longer-range goal is to use fiber optics inside computers to connect chips, and even to use light signals on chips, but PCO is probably not well-equipped in that area, Kessler said.
<irrelevant> A law requiring rest breaks and special training for many workers using video display terminals went into effect today in a Long Island county despite a legal challenge. Suffolk County health officials, who will enforce the law, estimated that it applies to 8,500 VDT users in 150 to 200 businesses. The measure is believed to be the first VDT-regulating law enacted by a local government. A state Supreme Court judge is expected to rule within the next two weeks on a challenge to the measure brought by four businesses. The judge has already granted the four businesses a preliminary injunction blocking a section of the law that would have required employers to pay 80 percent of the cost of eye examinations and glasses for VDT operators. Suffolk County's 18-member legislature approved the law in June over the objections of County Executive Patrick Halpin, who said it would hurt businesses and was of questionable value to VDT operators. The measure applies to operators who spend more than 26 hours a week in front of a screen in a private workplace with 20 or more terminals. Beginning today, those workers must be given a 15-minute break or alternate work assignment every three hours. The employers also must notify VDT operators of health hazards, including eye strain and nervous disorders, which may result from prolonged use of VDTs, and must schedule training in recognizing symptoms and taking protective steps. The law does not include fines for violations, but health officials can file civil charges to force compliance.
<irrelevant> Army officials knew or should have known about health and safety hazards threatening civilian workers at the U.S. Military Academy that prompted inspectors to cite 156 violations, a federal official says. Of the violations found by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 107 were classified as ``serious,'' meaning they held a ``substantial probability that death or serious injury can result,'' John Tomich, OSHA's New York regional director, said Thursday. Tomich said he was uncertain whether any serious injuries had resulted from the violations, which included bare electrical wires, a chlorine gas hazard and unsafe machines. The military also clearly knew about 30 additional problems but failed to make a ``reasonable'' effort to rectify them, Tomich said. In some cases, academy officials had hoped to remove the hazards but may have been hampered by budgetary restraints, Tomich said. ``A lot of the violations have to do with basic safety,'' said Tomich, whose Albany office headed the investigation. ``For whatever purpose ... the conditions were allowed to exist. We were surprised at the number of violations and the severity of them.'' West Point officials said the report, which was sent to the academy this week, still had to be reviewed by the school's superintendent, Lt. Gen. Dave Palmer, and they declined comment. OSHA's August 1988 probe was the first time the federal safety enforcement agency had investigated West Point. The OSHA team was dispatched after the academy's occupational accident rate rose above the national average for the first time in 1988, Tomich said. The national average was 2.79 accidents per 100 workers a year. Tomich said it was 3.85 at West Point. Besides 3,800 civilian employees, 4,400 cadets and 1,600 military personnel are at West Point, said academy spokeswoman Andrea Hamburger. OSHA is only authorized to investigate civilian worksites. Tomich said fewer than half of those were inspected at the academy, and the sites chosen were considered ``high hazard'' areas. ``The thing that we were surprised at was the sheer numbers that we had here,'' Tomich said. ``We had 80 or 90 pages of citations, which is not your normal case. And that's not even going into the entire facility wall to wall.'' Among the violations found by OSHA: _At the cadet gym, the academy failed to properly separate tanks of sodium hypochlorite and hydrochloric acid near the pool. The combination of the two chemicals would create dangerous chlorine gas, Tomich said, adding, ``The potential for them to mix was there.'' _Inadequate ventilation at the indoor rifle and pistol range created a potentially dangerous exposure to lead particles from bullets. _Many machines failed to have adequate safeguards against a worker getting caught in the apparatus. Tomich said there was ``risk of amputation.'' _Numerous cases where electrical wiring was either exposed or unsuitable. Tomich said employees risked coming in contact with live wires and being electrocuted. _Elevated working platforms failed to have guardrails. _Many exits were padlocked, violating fire safety codes. Despite failing to address these problems, Tomich said he detected no ``blatant disregard'' for civilian safety. In many cases, he said, Army officials ``basically just transferred that information onto a notice of unsafe condition and posted it in the area but never corrected it.''
<irrelevant> The government greatly expanded its role in protecting workers from hazardous materials Friday, setting exposure limits for 164 substances for the first time and tightening limits for 212 more in changes officials said could save 700 lives a year. ``This is a monumental job,'' Assistant Labor Secretary John A. Pendergrass said in announcing the standards, which he said should significantly reduce the risk of illness to 21 million Americans who work in general industry and may be exposed to toxic or hazardous materials. About 4.5 million workers now face exposures above the new limits, the Labor Department said in completing a two-year project that represents the first large-scale changes to exposure standards in nearly two decades. Employers have until September to comply. ``We are literally taking a 20-year technological leap,'' said Pendergrass, head of the department's Occupational Safety and Health Administration. ``This is the biggest action OSHA has taken in its history.'' OSHA estimated that in addition to preventing about 700 deaths a year, the tighter limits should prevent 55,000 illnesses and 500,000 lost workdays each year attributed to workplace exposure to hazardous and toxic materials. Rough estimates provided by the agency indicated the new standards could cut exposure-related deaths by one-fifth, illnesses and lost workdays by one-fourth. The reductions in maximum exposure limits cover some of the most commonly used industrial materials and byproducts, including acetone, carbon monoxide, carbon disulfide, chloroform, hydrogen cyanide, perchloroethylene and styrene. Substances regulated for the first time include wood dust and grain dust, acrylic acid, butane, gasoline, paraffin wax fumes, tungsten and welding fumes. Some substances are known or suspected carcinogens; others can have narcotic-like effects on humans. Still others are blamed for kidney, liver, heart and respiratory ailments while some are major skin and eye irritants. The limits cover the maximum amount of a substance a worker can be exposed to at any given time and during an eight-hour workday. OSHA said it needed to conduct further review before setting lmits for exposure to asphalt, fibrous glass dust and mineral wool. Those substances had been subject to new standards under the agency's draft regulations, but conflicting data presented during public hearings prompted OSHA to delay final decisions. The changes announced Friday could cost employers on average $6,000 a year for each affected workplace, though that would vary greatly, the government said. Costs could range from $77,400 a year for petroleum refineries to $360 annually for auto dealers. The average per-worker cost is $150. The department considered limits for more than 400 industrial chemicals and substances in a single review, departing from a policy of case-by-case study that had produced new, comprehensive standards for just 24 substances in 17 years. After the review, the government decided to let stand existing limits on 52 substances. The new limits on the others take effect March 1 and employers must be in compliance by Sept. 1. Exposure limits will remain unchanged for 169 additional substances not covered by the two-year review. Some of them are currently being reviewed on an individual basis. The new standards apply only to general industry but will be extended, following additional proceedings, to construction and maritime industries as well. New limits were first suggested two years ago. A draft was released last summer followed by 13 public hearings and a public comment period during which more than 90 companies, trade associations and labor unions testified and submitted documents for OSHA to consider. The new federal guidelines will require 23 states and the territories of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to check OSHA-approved local standards they have adopted to make sure they meet the new regulations. Those states are: Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington and Wyoming. Affected to a lesser extent are Connecticut and New York, which have state exposure standards for local government employees.
</top>
<top>
<num> 69
<title> Attempts to Revive the SALT II Treaty
<irrelevant> Today is Saturday, Jan. 14, the 14th day of 1989. There are 351 days left in the year. Today's Highlight in History: On Jan. 14, 1784, the United States ratified the peace treaty with England that ended the Revolutionary War. On this date: In 1639, the first constitution of Connecticut, known as the ``Fundamental Orders,'' was adopted at a meeting in Hartford. In 1742, English astronomer Edmond Halley, who observed the comet that now bears his name, died at the age of 85. In 1898, the Rev. Charles L. Dodgson, better known as author Lewis Carroll, died less than two weeks before his 66th birthday. In 1914, the Ford Motor Co. greatly improved its assembly-line operation by employing an endless chain to pull each chassis along. In 1943, during World War II, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and British Prime Minister Winston Churchill began a conference in Casablanca. In 1952, NBC's ``Today'' show premiered, featuring Dave Garroway as host, with Jack Lescoulie and newscaster Jim Fleming. In 1964, in her first public statement since the assassination of her husband, Jacqueline Kennedy appeared on television to thank the 800,000 people who had sent her messages of sympathy. In 1969, 25 crew members of the U.S. aircraft carrier Enterprise were killed when an explosion ripped through the ship during maneuvers off Hawaii. In 1978, the body of former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey lay in state at the Capitol, one day after his death. Former President Nixon arrived to pay tribute on his first visit to Washington since he resigned in 1974. Ten years ago: During a visit to Atlanta, President Carter called on Congress to make the birthday of slain civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. a national holiday. Five years ago: After addressing an audience of diplomats at the Vatican, Pope John Paul II greeted the envoys individually, including William A. Wilson, the new U.S. Ambassador-designate. One year ago: The U.N. Security Council voted 14-0, with the United States abstaining, in favor of a resolution calling on Israel to stop deporting Palestinians and to allow those already expelled to return home. Today's Birthdays: Movie producer Hal Roach is 97. CBS commentator Andy Rooney is 70. Former CBS newsman George Herman is 69. Actor-author Tom Tryon is 63. Civil rights activist Julian Bond is 49. Actress Faye Dunaway is 48. Actor Marjoe Gortner is 45. Thought for Today: ``Talent is like money; you don't have to have some to talk about it.'' _ Jules Renard, French educator and author (1864-1910).
<irrelevant> Most recently the United States was on a collision course with the world body over its refusal to grant a visa to Arafat so that he could speak here. The enraged General Assembly rebuked Washington and traveled to Geneva in protest to hear him. But even that dispute was set aside when the United States accepted what Arafat said as a renunciation of terror and opened talks with the PLO. _By Victoria Graham WASHINGTON _ Reagan took office determined to reverse pro-Soviet sentiment in Central America. He leaves with those hopes unfulfilled. Nicaragua's leftist government appears firmly entrenched as the thousands of Contra rebels on whom Reagan invested much political capital find themselves in dreary camps along the Honduran-Nicaraguan border, cut off from U.S. military support. Reagan once told a press conference that his goal in Nicaragua was to see the Sandinistas ``say uncle.'' In El Salvador, there is more uncertainty than at any time since 1984 when a democratically-elected president, Jose Napoleon Duarte, took office. That event was a victory for administration perseverance but Duarte's term is ending with a guerrilla war still raging and living standards far below what they were a decade ago despite hundreds of millions of dollars of U.S. aid. The country's political life is marked by increasing polarization. Military governments in Guatemala and Honduras have given way to elected governments but in both countries full blown democracy has yet to take root. Nicaragua ranks as a major Reagan disappointment. In every other regional conflict _ Afghanistan, Angola and Cambodia _ the administration can claim a measure of success. Reagan was never able to sell the notion to the American people that the Sandinista government was a menace which, left unchecked, would result in the spread of Marxism throughout Central America and into Mexico. He could never rally a sustainable consensus in support of his view that the best way to deal with the Sandinistas was through generous support for the Contra rebels, who Reagan once called the ``moral equivalent of the founding fathers.'' Within the Reagan White House the Contra cause became a highly emotional issue. It induced some of the administration's most strategically placed people _ National Security advisor John Poindexter and Lt. Col. Oliver North _ to bend or perhaps break the law because defeat of the Contras seemed so unthinkable. Both were charged with breaking the law. _By George Gedda WASHINGTON _ Reagan leaves office with a mixed record on arms control. The treaty he signed at the Washington summit with Gorbachev in December 1987 was a landmark. For the first time in history, an entire category of U.S. and Soviet missiles _ those in the intermediate range of 300 to 3,000 miles _ was abolished. The treaty also broke new ground in providing for Soviet inspectors to observe the destruction of banned U..S. missiles here, while American monitors checked up on the Soviets at their sites. Left undone, however, was the larger Reagan goal of completing a treaty to reduce globe-girdling nuclear missiles, bombers and submarines by 30 to 50 percent. Some of the weapons ticketed for cutbacks, such as sea-launched cruise missiles, are extremely difficult to detect. Negotiations stalled over verification procedures, while the Soviets never abandoned their attempt to impose some sort of restrictions on the U.S. anti-ballistic missile program as part of a Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. The program, known formally as the Strategic Defense Initiative, is aimed at mounting a defense in space against Soviet ballistic missiles. In other arms control areas, Reagan did not reach an agreement with the Soviets on ways to monitor underground nuclear tests nor find a way to deter the proliferation of chemical weapons. He accused the Soviets in reports to Congress of probably exceeding the permissible 150-kiloton ceiling on underground blasts. _By Barry Schweid WASHINGTON _ The prime minister of Japan made his get-acquainted call less than four months into President Reagan's first term. Questioned about defense policy by members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki said Japan felt it ``Better to be a porcupine than a roaring lion.'' But the official interpreter got it wrong and ``porcupine'' came out in English as ``wise mouse.'' The Japanese embassy corrected the animal mixup but the incident still triggered a burst of comment that Japan was shirking responsibility and enjoying a ``free ride'' on defense at the cost of the United States. To some Americans _ those displaced from jobs by imports _ Japan may look today like a lion-sized economic porcupine. But experts rate overall relations better today than at the beginning of the Reagan years. Quality- and price-conscious U.S. consumers continue to buy up Japanese products. Lack of American competitiveness has become recognized as part of the problem of U.S. trade deficits that rose from $16 billion with Japan in 1981 to nearly $70 billion before they started to decline last year. Eight years and two prime ministers after Suzuki visited Washington, the Japanese continue to shun a ``roaring lion'' military role and there is greater acceptance of this at the Pentagon and White House. The Reagan administration hails as a success the defense relationship in which Japan now helps pay the upkeep of nearly 55,000 U.S. personnel on its territory and provides destroyers, anti-submarine patrols and jet fighters to defend sealanes up to 1,000 nautical miles off its shores. It also applauds Japan's offsetting of its constitutionally-mandated low military profile by becoming the world's largest foreign aid donor with a five-year, $50 billion program of assistance tied less and less to buying Japanese products. Experts give Reagan and his administration good marks for recognizing Japan's growing status as an economic superpower vital to the United States and encouraging the relationship to mature into a partnership stressing dialogue and shared benefits more than name-calling. _By Gene Kramer LONDON _ The Reagan years brought a specialness to the British-American relationship not seen since World War II, and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher made it the cornerstone of her foreign policy. For Reagan, Mrs. Thatcher has stood alone among the other West European leaders, even at political cost. For example, she was the sole ally to back the 1986 U.S. bombing raid on Libya, which most others in Britain denounced as heavy-handed and futile. Under Mrs. Thatcher, Britain followed the United States out of UNESCO in 1985; was the first to deploy U.S. cruise missiles in Europe in 1983; and, when the superpowers agreed in 1987 to remove the missiles, she publicly endorsed the deal despite private reservations.
<irrelevant> Money _ how to raise it, how to spend it _ will preoccupy state lawmakers as they get down to work in 1989, with every legislature trying to squeeze the most out of state tax dollars. For some, it will be a Chinese puzzle that nonetheless will have to be solved _ there just isn't enough money coming in to cover required outlays. Most states will be able to make it by sticking to fairly tight budgets. A lucky few will be able to salt money away or give breaks to taxpayers. Bound up in the legislative purse strings are calls to improve education, including raises for teachers; relieve prison overcrowding; repair highways; lower property taxes, and spend more on human services ranging from fighting drug abuse to cleaning up the environment. There are also non-money items: AIDS legislation in Virginia, Utah, Illinois; the death penalty in Rhode Island and Kansas; insurance reform in California, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South Carolina, and government restructuring in Mississippi and North Dakota. Finances loom foremost. The National Conference of State Legislatures, in a survey released Friday of staff analysts in the 50 legislatures, found that more than half said the main fiscal issue was obtaining enough revenue to balance state budgets. Other findings showed a broad concern for the soundness of state finances. ``We are literally being tugged at from all sides, and frankly I don't think our resources are able to be stretched much further,'' said Senate President Philip Rock of Illinois, where Gov. James R. Thompson has campaigned unsuccessfully for an income tax increase the past two years. Lawmakers, having read voters' lips, are loath to talk about tax increases. However, the idea is being considered in states with the biggest money woes: West Virginia, New York, Massachusetts, Arizona and Louisiana. West Virginia, with a budget of only $1.46 billion, may be the worst off. It will need an additional $290 million in revenue to meet bills in the new fiscal year, said House Finance Chairman George Farley, and that's without a newly uncovered loss in investments and other setbacks totaling $390 million. Farley said a tax increase of $75 million to $80 million is necessary, and a sales tax on food, abolished in the early 1980s, may reappear. New York and Massachusetts saw surpluses from previous years quickly turn into deficits. Massachusetts has a projected shortfall of at least $636 million in the current $11.6 billion budget, and Gov. Michael S. Dukakis recently proposed laying off 300 managerial employees and other spending cuts. Many believe he will seek an increase in the gasoline tax and a cut in capital gains tax deductions. New York is short by more than $1 billion this year, according to Gov. Mario Cuomo. For the fiscal year beginning April 1, Cuomo has estimated that even with his less-then-inflation budget he will need an additional $700 million in revenue, and he has already proposed increasing ``sin taxes'' on cigarettes and alcohol to raise about $200 million. The third year of a three-year tax cut could be delayed, too, although Cuomo is reluctant to do so. The riches-to-rags example is not lost on well-off states like Hawaii, Kansas, Idaho, Utah, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, Oregon, Virginia and Wisconsin. ``It's real easy to make a tax cut right now, and we all look good for re-election,'' said Hawaii House Finance Committee Chairman Joseph Souki. ``But is that the wisest thing?'' For the majority of states, which fall somewhere in the middle, there will be hard choices. Many have balanced-budget requirements in their constitutions. Minnesota is in far better shape than it was two years ago, and Gov. Rudy Perpich's biennial budget is expected to be $13.9 billion, a 14.5 percent spending increase that would be achieved without raising taxes. But even so, ``it's a very, very, very, very tight budget,'' he said. ``I mean, tight budget. Some of the favorites that I've been very supportive of _ be it the arts, tourism _ it's just not there this time.'' Educational spending ranks high on most states' lists. ``Education and economic development go together,'' said Max Coll, chairman of New Mexico's House Appropriations and Finance Committee. ``Who is going to relocate or expand in a state that doesn't offer a really good education system at both the public school and higher education levels?'' Even after budgets are settled, lawmakers won't lack items to debate. Rising auto insurance rates are expected to come under scrutiny in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South Carolina. California is awaiting the results of a court challenge to Proposition 103, a citizens' initiative passed in November that requires a 20 percent rate rollback for most kinds of insurance. There may be an effort to repeal Illinois' year-old requirement for premarital testing for exposure to the AIDS virus. In Utah, there are bills calling for mandatory reporting of people who test positive for the virus, mandatory testing of inmates and a strengthening of laws to protect the privacy of AIDS patients. Virginia's General Assembly also will consider bills requiring AIDS tests for sex-crime suspects and making it a felony to knowingly donate or sell AIDS-tainted blood.
<irrelevant> Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci is asking Congress to increase defense spending by 2 percent above the rate of inflation for the next two years in a proposed military budget likely to change after George Bush becomes president. In proposing $315.2 billion in budget authority for 1990, and $330.89 billion for 1991, Carlucci is requesting an increase in Star Wars spending authority from $4.1 billion in 1989 to $5.9 billion in 1990 and $7 billion in 1991. Under the proposed defense budget for the fiscal year beginning next Oct. 1, although $315.2 billion would be authorized, $303 billion would actually be spent. The spending authority includes funding for long-term projects and weapons buying in future years. The lower figure, outlays, includes only the funds to be spent during the 12 months of the 1990 fiscal year. The $303 billion in 1990 outlays includes Pentagon spending and $9.2 billion for Energy Department nuclear weapons and research programs, and is projected at $4.7 billion above actual spending during this fiscal year. Among the requests likely to be changed by Congress or Bush are $94.6 million in spending authority in 1990 and $124.3 million the next year for research on a new Navy Anti-Satellite (ASAT) weapon; and elimination of a proposed single-warhead intercontinental ballistic missile, the Midgetman. In other areas of national security, the Reagan administration is asking for an increase of $5.6 billion, to a level of $8.4 billion, in security assistance programs to other nations. The whopping 200 percent jump comes in part because loan repayments from other nations go down next year. The administration is asking for $3.8 billion for grants to foreign countries _ mostly in the Middle East _ so they can buy U.S. weapons. Another $3.5 billion is being sought in non-military aid, mostly for Central America and the Middle East. The budget message forecasts the request of additional money for the Contra guerrillas of Nicaragua. The proposed Pentagon budget also continues production of the newly unveiled B-2 or stealth bomber, designed to elude enemy radar. The exact annual cost of that program remains classified, although the Air Force announced Dec. 16 that each B-2 would cost $516 million, a total of $68.1 billion for 132 planes by 1995, making it the most expensive plane in the world. The B-2 program may face trouble following disclosures of inadequacies in electronic equipment designed to enable newly acquired B-1B bombers to penetrate enemy defenses. It is also far from clear whether Bush and Congress will agree to cancel the Midgetman, which would be designed to be fired from mobile trucks. Last year, the Air Force volunteered to drop the Midgetman in favor of a rail-mobile version of the 10-warhead MX, or Peacekeeper. The Air Force argued that 500 warheads could be deployed on 50 Peacekeepers for $10 billion vs. $44.7 billion for the Midgetman. But Congress restored money for research on Midgetman, arguing that more missiles would be harder to track and destroy, and that a single-warhead weapon made more sense under a proposed Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty limiting the number of launchers. Bush was expected to submit a revised version of the budget, and the retired Air Force general he has named as national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, has publicly endorsed the Midgetman over the MX and has suggested lower levels of funding for Star Wars, formally known as the Strategic Defense Initiative. The active duty strength of the armed forces would increase by 5,000 in 1990 to a level of 2,138,300, then decrease the following year to 2,134,600. The force level in the Army and Marine Corps remain the same, at 772,000 for the Army and 197,000 for the Marines, that of the Air Force would decline slightly, from 571,000 in 1989 and 1990 to 567,000 in 1991, and that of the Navy would grow from 593,000 to 598,000 to provide crews for the addition of new aircraft carriers to the current fleet of 13 flattops. The Navy must postpone its plans for a 600-ship fleet, although Adm. Stephen Loftus told reporters that goal could be achieved sometime in the 1990s. The number of ships would drop to 574 next year and 571 in 1991 with retirements that include two ballistic missiles submarines and the conversion of another into a moored training ship in 1990. One submarine armed with Trident class ballistic missiles is to be added each year, with 63 Trident II missiles delivered in 1990 and 52 in 1991. The Navy, as expected, will acquire two SSN-688 nuclear attack submarines in 1990 and two SSN-21 Seawolf nuclear attack submarines in 1991. The budget calls for pay raises of 3.6 percent in 1990 and 3.2 percent in 1991 for uniformed military and of 2 percent and 3 percent for civilian employees of the Defense Department. As the number of men and women in active service declines, the number in the National Guard and reserves is to increase by 7,600 to 1,178,300 in fiscal 1990 and to 1,181,700 the following year.
<irrelevant> Here, at a glance, are the highlights of President Reagan's proposed federal budget for the 1990 fiscal year, beginning next Oct. 1. Reagan's farewell budget proposes collecting $1.059 trillion in revenues and spending $1.152 trillion. That leaves a deficit of $92.5 billion, the lowest since a $73.7 billion imbalance between spending and revenues in 1981. While proposing no new taxes, the budget seeks $1 billion in a variety of user fees, ranging from a new $25 decal for boat owners to higher charges for getting government-backed loans, including VA mortgages. The president called for a $1.7 billion tax cut for corporations with foreign operations and recommended changes that would save the oil and gas industries about $39 million. Reagan urged repeal of a law requiring that taxes on airplane tickets, shippers and fuel be cut in half next Jan. 1, a move which would cost shippers and travelers $1.2 billion. He would also require all state and local government workers to pay the tax that funds Medicare. Those hired before April 1, 1986, are not paying, even though most are eligible for Medicare because of earlier, non-government employment or through their spouses. This would raise $2 billion. The budget proposes trimming Medicare, which provides health care to Social Security recipients, by $3.2 billion below the projected increase for 1990, primarily by reducing the fees received by doctors and hospitals. Medicaid, which pays the health bills of poor people, would be cut by $1.7 billion over its projected increase for 1990 with the savings coming from reductions in federal payments to the states, which run the Medicaid program. An increase of 24 percent to $1.6 billion is proposed in the search for a cure for AIDS. There would be $303 billion in defense outlays, including Pentagon spending and $9.2 billion for Energy Department nuclear weapons and research programs. That is $4.7 billion above spending during this fiscal year. Among the requests are funding for research on a new Navy Anti-Satellite weapon; and elimination of a proposed single-warhead intercontinental ballistic missile, the Midgetman. The Pentagon budget continues production of the new B-2 or stealth bomber and seeks an increase in spending on development of the space-based Star Wars nuclear defense shield. The president also proposes making a downpayment of $900 million to start cleaning up and modernizing the government's aging nuclear weapons facilities. The proposal calls for termination of 82 individual programs including the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Legal Services Corporation, the Economic Development Administration, the Appalachian Regional Commission, direct loans by the Small Business Administration, Amtrak railroad passenger subsidies, mass transit grants and subsidies to airlines serving small airports. Reagan proposed the sale of about $6 billion in government assets, including the two naval petroleum reserves and various government loans held by the public. Reagan has tried and failed over the years to get Congress to go along with these proposals. Spending on farm programs would be cut by $9.7 billion, a 19 percent reduction, achieved in part with cuts in subsidy payments to farmers. The budget includes $380 million to pay for the controversial 50 percent pay hike for members of Congress, federal judges and other top federal officials. But Reagan proposed pay increases of only 2 percent for civilian employees and 3.6 percent for the military. He recommended skipping the annual cost-of-living increase for federal civilian and military retirees in January 1990, to save $1.4 billion, and he proposed holding increases after that time to 1 percentage point below the inflation rate.
</top>
<top>
<num> 70
<title> Surrogate Motherhood
<relevant> A woman who gave up her baby girl under a surrogacy agreement and the couple who intended to adopt the infant but then got divorced are waging a three-way court battle over custody of the child. The fight, further complicated by the fact that the sperm donor is not the man seeking custody, centers on blond-haired, brown-eyed Tessa, now 4 years old, biological daughter of Norma Lee Stotsky. In January 1985, the day-old girl was given to Richard Reams and Beverly Seymour, a married couple who paid Mrs. Stotsky $10,000 and expenses under a surrogate mother agreement. The marriage broke up a year later, before the couple started adoption proceedings. The legal entanglements began a short while later in juvenile court in Columbus when Mrs. Stotsky, Reams and Ms. Seymour petitioned for custody. Subsequently, Reams filed an adoption petition with Mrs. Stotsky's consent, prompting Ms. Seymour to file one of her own. Legal and personal complications have delayed a decision in the case and put the child and her future at risk, according to Mrs. Stotsky's attorney, Patricia Grimm. ``I honestly feel for all three of these people. They all love her,'' she said. ``My client is pursuing this for the benefit of Tessa. She wants to make sure she gets a good home.'' Despite their clients' differences, Ms. Grimm; Tessa's court-appointed attorney, Charles Milless; and Reams' attorney, Kim Halliburton, agree on one thing: Tessa is bound to get hurt. ``It really is a legal ping-pong game,'' said Ms. Halliburton. ``Unfortunately, Tessa is the ball.'' Milless said his goal is to protect Tessa from pain. ``Any child involved in a custody battle is an unfortunate child. Overall, she's in pretty good shape. We have protected her, or tried to, from publicity,'' he said. ``I'm not so sure that she understands all of this.'' A court-ordered paternity test revealed that a sperm donor other than Reams was Tessa's biological father, despite what Ms. Grimm said was a ``gentleman's agreement'' among the three parties that Reams would be the father. Although the donor, a former colleague of Mrs. Stotsky's, has waived any claim to the child, both would-be adoptive parents and Mrs. Stotsky have not. All three filed custody petitions in juvenile court, but a complicating factor is that Ohio has no law governing surrogacy contracts. The custody requests were put on hold while the question of petitions for adoption, filed by Reams and Ms. Seymour, was debated. Reams and Ms. Seymour temporarily lost their separate efforts to adopt Tessa last week when Probate Judge Richard Metcalf dismissed their adoption petitions primarily on the grounds that the two had failed to post required $3,000 bonds. The order moves the case back to juvenile court, where custody and financial support will be determined, Milless said. Reams likely will appeal Metcalf's decision, Ms. Halliburton said. ``If his rulings are not reversed, a choice will have to be made,'' she said. ``This child, who loves both of her parents and who truly believes that they are her parents, will be awarded to one of them.'' Ms. Grimm said another married couple is interested in adopting Tessa, but has yet to formally enter the case. All three attorneys indicated they would fight any attempt by an outside party to adopt the girl. Ms. Grimm said Mrs. Stotsky is undecided about whether to continue her pursuit of custody once the case goes back to juvenile court. Ms. Seymour could not be reached for comment on the case because she has an unlisted telephone number. Tessa, now a ward of the juvenile court, splits her time each week between Reams and Ms. Seymour, who live in separate towns near Columbus. Although Tessa knows Mrs. Stotsky, she is unaware that she is her biological mother, said Ms. Grimm. Milless said he has no plans to appeal Metcalf's ruling because he believes adoption may not be right for Tessa. ``I see no reason that one person should be allowed to adopt as opposed to the other. Adoption freezes the others out of the life of the child,'' he said.
<relevant> The American Bar Association, without endorsing surrogate motherhood, offered states a blueprint Tuesday for legalizing the practice and making surrogacy contracts enforceable. The ABA's House of Delegates, its policy-making body, approved by voice vote a resolution offering states a proposed model act for legalizing surrogacy. But the resolution also contained an alternative model that would bar enforcement of contracts in which a so-called surrogate mother is paid to bear a child and then give up any claim to her offspring. The 330,000-member ABA, the nation's largest organization of lawyers, chose to adopt a resolution with conflicting options to avoid going on record in favor of surrogacy. But opponents of the resolution insisted the measure would make it appear the ABA supports the controversial practice. ``This is a mechanism to buy and sell children,'' said Kurt Melchior, a San Francisco lawyer who opposed the resolution. ``Our basic constitutional and humanistic principles are being deeply offended here.'' The surrogacy proposal was adopted as the ABA concluded its annual mid-winter convention. Michael P. Sullivan of Minneapolis, a chief sponsor of the surrogacy resolution, said the ABA must recognize that such contracts are being made in many states and offer guidance to lawmakers. ``In dealing with the new biology, you can't put your head in the sand,'' he said. Sullivan said his main interest was in assuring uniformity among those states that choose to make surrogacy legal. Proponents of the measure said surrogacy is a boon to the 15 percent of married couples that are infertile and unable to adopt because of a shortage of babies put up for adoption. In the surrogacy case that attracted the most nationwide attention, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled in 1988 that surrogate motherhood for money violates the state's adoption laws. The state court voided a surrogacy contract but awarded custody of the child _ referred to as Baby M _ to its biological father and his wife. Baby M's biological mother, Mary Beth Whitehead-Gould, won unsupervised visitation rights. The ruling fueled rather than resolved the debate over surrogacy. The resolution adopted by the ABA proposed that those states legalizing surrogate contracts should limit them to agreements between a married couple and a surrogate mother. The husband seeking the contract would have to donate his sperm or his wife would have to contribute the egg to establish a genetic tie between the baby and one of the parents. The agreement would be approved by a judge before conception and there would have to be proof that the wife seeking to acquire the baby is unable to bear a child herself, the resolution said. Also, the surrogate mother would have 180 days after the child is conceived to repudiate the contract and keep the baby. After 180 days, the couple that signed the contract to acquire the child would become its legal parents. The ABA also unanimously adopted a resolution calling for increased funding of the federal Legal Services Corporation. The resolution, which criticized the former Reagan administration for cutting back legal services to the poor, urged President Bush to name Legal Services Corporation directors who are committed to helping the poor.
<relevant> As ``Baby M'' turns 3 this month, the controversy that surrounded her birth to a surrogate mother has diminished little. More than 60 bills have been introduced in state legislatures and three in Congress to ban, regulate or study surrogacy since the March 27, 1986, birth to Mary Beth Whitehead of the little girl she was paid $10,000 to carry. Melissa, as Baby M now is named, lives with William and Elizabeth Stern in Tenafly, with one six-hour visit a week from her biological mother. Her parents won't talk about the case, their daughter, or the woman who bore her and is now engaged in a 22-city promotional tour for her book, ``A Mother's Story.'' ``I really thought this was something special,'' said Mrs. Whitehead-Gould, now married to Dean Gould, whose child _ her fifth _ she is expecting in July. ``I really thought it was a way for an empty-armed couple to have a child.'' ``I really was naive,'' she said recently. She criticized the clinic where she was inseminated with Stern's sperm for inadequately explaining the process and how she might feel, but realizes she should have asked more questions. ``I thought it was something so wonderful. You don't think of the bad. ... I didn't want to hurt the Sterns. It was very hard to tell them, `No, you can't have the baby''' she named Sara _ the name on the birth certificate. Mrs. Whitehead-Gould returned the $10,000 to Stern. The case ``alerted the public to in vitro research,'' said Robert D. Arenstein, a New York lawyer for Mrs. Whitehead-Gould who has been working for the past year with the Washington-based National Coalition Against Surrogacy. ``You just can't take somebody's baby away from them. All these things had never been addressed in a contract,'' Arenstein said. The coalition sees surrogacy as ``a creation of tragedy,'' said its lawyer, Andrew Kimbrell. The group was established partly to provide low-cost legal aid to women involved in surrogacy contracts and as a support network for them. Among supporters of surrogacy is Gary N. Skoloff, a lawyer for Stern. ``One out of seven married couples in the United States are infertile,'' Skoloff said. ``Since medical science has now figured out a way for a couple to have a child through artificial insemination, it ought to be legalized but be well-regulated. ``If adoption can be well-regulated then surrogacy can be well-regulated.'' The New Jersey Supreme Court, while awarding custody of Baby M to William Stern, last year outlawed surrogacy for pay in the state. State Sen. Catherine Costa has introduced a bill to regulate arrangements for surrogacy contracts. Louisiana, Nebraska and Kentucky have declared surrogacy contracts void and unenforceable. Michigan also assesses criminal penalties for paid surrogacy. An Indiana law prohibits the state from enforcing a surrogacy contract. In Florida surrogacy-for-hire is illegal, but a woman can voluntarily bear a child for someone else and be reimbursed for medical and some living expenses. At least three bills have been introduced in Congress to ban surrogacy, to prohibit federal enforcement of the contracts and to bar use of federal money to help veterans get children through surrogacy. The American Bar Association, without endorsing surrogate motherhood, last month offered a blueprint for legalizing surrogacy. It suggested that contracts be limited to married couples and a surrogate mother who would have 180 days to change her mind after conception. A judge would have to approve the pact before conception, and the egg or the sperm would have to come from the couple. Skoloff believes surrogacy will be debated until it's legalized in three or four states where all couples will go. ``The whole idea is to protect kids, and having no statute is giving them the least amount of protection,'' he said. ``A Mother's Story,'' written with investigative journalist Loretta Schwartz-Nobel and published by St. Martin's Press Inc., begins with the birth and is limited by court order only to Baby M's second birthday. The Sterns tried to block the book, arguing it would exploit the child. Mrs. Whitehead-Gould, 31, said she wrote the book so her daughter would know her side of the story, and to help her other children cope with the case. ``It's pretty much over for me,'' she said. ``But I hope if one woman reads this, she will think again about her doing it.''
<relevant> Today is Friday, March 31, the 90th day of 1989. There are 275 days left in the year. Today's highlight in history: One hundred years ago, on March 31, 1889, French engineer Alexandre Gustave Eiffel unfurled the French tricolor from the top of the Eiffel Tower in Paris, officially marking its completion. Eiffel's work, however, was denounced by artists, composers and authors who signed a petition condemning the Tower as a ``horrid nightmare'' that resembled ``a huge, black factory smokestack.'' On this date: In 1831, Quebec and Montreal were incorporated as cities. In 1870, Thomas Peterson Mundy cast a ballot in a municipal election in Perth Amboy, N.J., becoming the first black to vote following ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment. In 1880, Wabash, Ind., became the first town to be completely illuminated with electrical lighting. In 1917, the United States took possession of the Virgin Islands from Denmark. In 1923, the first dance marathon in the United States, held in New York City, ended with Alma Cummings setting a world record of 27 hours on her feet. In 1932, Ford Motor Co. publicly unveiled its ``V-8'' engine. In 1933, during the Great Depression, Congress authorized the Civilian Conservation Corps. In 1943, the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ``Oklahoma!'' opened on Broadway. In 1949, Newfoundland entered confederation as Canada's tenth province. In 1953, the United Nations Security Council nominated Dag Hammarskjold of Sweden to become Secretary-General. In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned the country by announcing in a broadcast address that he would not run for another term of office. In 1976, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that Karen Anne Quinlan, in a coma for almost a year, could be disconnected from her respirator. Quinlan, who remained in a coma, died in June 1985. In 1980, former track and field star Jesse Owens, hero of the 1936 Berlin Olympics, died in Tucson, Ariz., at age 66. In 1983, some 5,000 people died when a major earthquake struck southern Colombia. In 1986, 167 people died when a Mexicana Airlines Boeing 727 crashed in a remote mountainous region of Mexico. In 1987, the judge in the ``Baby M'' case awarded custody of the girl born under a surrogate-motherhood contract to her father, William Stern, instead of biological mother Mary Beth Whitehead. Ten years ago: President Jimmy Carter announced in Milwaukee that he would visit the Three Mile Island atomic plant near Middletown, Penn., where an accident three days earlier had damaged the core of the Unit Two reactor and leaked radioactivity. Five years ago: Three hundred French soldiers left Beirut, marking the formal end of the 19-month multinational peacekeeping effort in Lebanon by France, Britain, the United States and Italy. One year ago: The novel ``Beloved'' by Toni Morrison was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, while the North Carolina newspaper ``Charlotte Observer'' won the prize for public service for its coverage of the PTL scandal. Today's birthdays: Radio and t-v personality Henry Morgan is 74. Actor Richard Kiley is 67. Actor William Daniels is 62. Labor leader Cesar Chavez is 62. Former hockey star Gordie Howe is 61. Actress Shirley Jones is 55. Actor Richard Chamberlain is 54. Musician Herb Alpert is 54. Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., is 49. Actor Christopher Walken is 46. Comedian Gabe Kaplan is 44. Thought for Today: ``It is much easier to repent of sins that we have committed than to repent of those we intend to commit.'' _ ``Josh Billings'' (Henry Wheeler Shaw), American author (1818-1885).
<relevant> Baby M, the New Jersey baby involved in a much-publicized custody fight that prompted national interest in surrogate motherhood, turns 3 years old on Monday. Her natural mother, Mary Beth Whitehead-Gould, had agreed to be artificially inseminated and then give the child to the natural father, but reneged on the deal after the baby was born. The girl, now known as Melissa Stern, now lives with her father and his wife, William and Elizabeth Stern of Tenafly. ``I'm not at liberty to discuss'' where Melissa will celebrate her birthday, Mrs. Whitehead-Gould said in a telephone interview Sunday from her home in Bayport, N.Y. When she agreed under a $10,000 contract to bear the child, she was a Brick Township housewife, married to Richard Whitehead. She rejected the money and sought custody of the child. In 1987, a lower court judge stripped her of all parental rights, in a case in which the baby was referred to Baby M. But the state Supreme Court restored parental and visitation rights to Mrs. Whitehead-Gould and outlawed surrogacy for pay in New Jersey. The Star-Ledger of Newark reported that Melissa would spend the weekend with Mrs. Whitehead-Gould and return to Tenafly on Monday. A judge ruled in a visitation order last year that the child could spend birthdays with the Sterns because she is being raised in their home and ``children normally have birthday parties with their friends.'' Mrs. Whitehead-Gould has since divorced Whitehead and remarried, and has become a campaigner against surrogacy. The Sterns continually decline to be interviewed. Mrs. Whitehead-Gould said Sunday that she planned to leave Monday for the last two weeks of a 22-city tour to promote the book she co-wrote about the custody fight.
<irrelevant> Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist has strongly endorsed a proposal to raise federal judges' salaries by 51 percent to $135,000 a year. In his 1988 year-end report on the federal judiciary, Rehnquist threw his weight behind a presidential commission's recommendation of big pay raises for judges and about 2,000 other top federal officials. Besides calling for the pay raise for trial judges, who now make $89,500, the commission recommended boosting salaries of federal appeals court judges from $95,000 to $140,000, a 47 percent jump; of Supreme Court associate justices from $110,000 to $165,000, a 50 percent increase; and of the chief justice from $115,000 to $175,000, a 52 percent increase. The recommendations are pending before President Reagan, who can accept or modify the figures before sending his fiscal 1990 budget to Congress on Jan. 9. Under the law, whatever pay increases the president endorses will take effect 30 days later unless both the House and the Senate vote to set them aside. ``Over the past two decades, the purchasing power of federal judicial salaries has been seriously eroded by inflation,'' Rehnquist said. The buying power of an appeals court judge's salary has dropped 30 percent in the past 20 years, said the chief justice, adding, ``While the salary of the median household has increased approximately 200 percent to keep pace with inflation since 1969, the salaries of federal (trial) judges rose by little more than half that amount.'' Rehnquist cited a recent American Bar Foundation survey in which 30 percent of the federal judges who responded said they planned to resign before retirement unless ``a significant increase in compensation'' is provided. ``Dozens of federal judges have resigned from the bench during the past 15 years, far more than ever before, due in large part to financial reasons,'' Rehnquist said. ``And the problem appears to be growing worse.'' He said judicial salaries are directly linked to ``the quality of American justice.'' Comparing justice and medical care, Rehnquist said, ``We are interested in receiving the best medical care available. If the quality of medical treatment is poor, it is little consolation that the cost may be low.'' He added: ``The right to one's day in court is meaningless if the judge who hears the case lacks the talent, experience and temperament that will enable him to protect imperiled rights and to render a fair decision.''
<irrelevant> Family members who serve as judge, prosecutor and defense attorney in Dyer County Juvenile Court say they work hard at avoiding conflicts of interest. ``It looks like a kangaroo court,'' said James O. Lanier, the public defender. His brother, David W. Lanier, is the juvenile court judge. The public defender's son, James E. Lanier, is a prosecutor. Judge Lanier requires all attorneys, defendants and parents to sign a waiver before he hears a case in which his brother or nephew are attorneys. The waiver acknowledges that everyone is aware of the relationships. So far, no one has refused to sign. But the judge, who has been on the bench in this western Tennessee community since 1982, said he does not believe his nephew should prosecute cases in his courtroom. ``I don't think there will be any conflict of interest, but it's not good practice for the three of us to all be in the courtroom,'' he said. But James E. Lanier said he sees no conflict. ``None of us are in collusion with each other,'' he said. State Attorney General Charles W. Burson has issued a legal opinion requested by James O. Lanier saying the arrangement violates no state law. Gil Campbell, executive director of the Tennessee Bar Association, declined to comment. Other Tennessee officials said it is common for parties in legal proceedings to be related, but not to the extent of the Laniers. James O. Lanier, the public defender, also has asked the state Board of Professional Responsibility for an ethics opinion on the matter. The board is made up of nine private attorneys appointed by the state Supreme Court to supervise the legal profession. James O. Lanier and his son practiced law together for seven years before the younger Lanier became assistant district attorney general in October.
<irrelevant> At age 11, Scott James had been in and out of special schools. His mother deemed him uncontrollable and tried for two months to have him placed in state custody, but state officials refused. Protective custody, the state said, is for children who are abused or abandoned, not those with behavior problems that require treatment. Today, Scott is in state custody _ accused of murder. Scott is confined at the Maine Youth Center in South Portland, accused of setting a New Year's Eve fire at a six-unit apartment building in Biddeford that killed a 53-year-old man. Authorities have not decided whether the boy will be tried as a juvenile or an adult. Officials who deal with emotionally troubled youngsters say Scott is one of many children who need help but cannot get it because there are not enough resources to go around. Roger Raymond, Biddeford's special education director, said he contacted the state Department of Human Services two months ago because he feared Scott was at risk. ``It's terrible what happened,'' Raymond said. ``It goes without saying, we don't have the resources available for kids who are in need of such services. And I doubt that his situation is unique.'' After a three-hour detention hearing Tuesday, District Court Judge Robert Crowley found probable cause for a felony murder charge stemming from the fire death of Raymond R. Lauzon. Assistant Attorney General Eric Wright said the boy must appear Jan. 17 in District Court. Felony murder is a homicide that occurs during the commission of a felony, in this case arson, in which someone's death is a reasonably foreseeable result. Should Scott be tried as a juvenile and convicted, he could remain in the custody of the state until he is 21 or 22 years old. If tried for murder as an adult, he would face a minimum of 25 years in prison and a maximum life term. At Tuesday's hearing, Scott's 8-year-old brother, Jason, told the court that the two boys had been visiting Lauzon and were told to leave when the older boy was caught trying to steal money from Lauzon's bedroom. Jason said he walked away but Scott lingered around the apartment building before joining him later. In interviews and court testimony, juvenile caseworkers, school officials and Scott's mother, Janet Sullivan, portrayed him as an emotionally troubled youngster who had been placed in three special schools but remained uncontrollable. For the past three months he had run away about once a week from Ms. Sullivan, 31, who is divorced, jobless and on welfare, according to testimony. A spokesman at the Department of Human Services said Scott's problems were not so severe that he needed to be placed in a foster home or residential treatment center. Peter Walsh, director of the Bureau of Social Services, said the department ``never found this child to be in jeopardy and needing his relationship with his parent severed.''
<irrelevant> The shooting death of a couple a few feet from their adoptive baby's crib has meant a second chance for the 18-year-old biological mother, who said Wednesday she is ready now to raise the child. Tracy Medeiros successfully fought to regain custody of Travis, the son she gave up at birth nine months ago. As she prepared him for a trip home to Massachusetts, she met Wednesday with social service workers, attended a parenting class here and talked with a child psychologist. ``Now I know I'm ready. I've grown up a lot,'' said Medeiros. ``She's a gutsy little kid. She's young and that's the big thing against her,'' said her attorney, Barbara Rohan. ``She's determined to do it. She's really determined.'' Pregnant at 17, Medeiros decided to give up the baby after her boyfriend left her. A former boyfriend introduced Medeiros to his cousin Tasia Stephens and her husband, William, of Novato. Married for 15 years and owners of successful hair salons and video stores, Tasia, 43, and William, 45, wanted desperately to adopt a baby. The young mother-to-be and the Stephenses grew close. Medeiros stayed at a home for teen-age mothers in nearby Santa Rosa during her pregnancy. She and the couple chose the baby's name together and the couple was present at his birth. The Stephenses paid her medical and travel expenses, and kept the baby even though the formal adoption process was delayed by a backlog of cases. Medeiros planned to visit the baby and the Stephenses during the yearend holidays. Then Novato police called her in Massachusetts to say the Stephenses had been found shot to death in their bed Dec. 14. Travis, hungry but unharmed, was found in his crib, where he had been unattended for at least 24 hours, authorities estimated. Suddenly, Medeiros said, the safe, secure future she arranged for her son was uncertain. ``My world was totally crushed,'' she said. ``I thought, `What am I going to do with the baby?' I thought, `I love him, I want him to be with me.''' A Marin County judge placed the baby in a foster home, and Medeiros petitioned for custody. Relatives of the Stephenses argued that returning Travis to his biological mother wasn't in his best interest. On Tuesday, Superior Court Juvenile Commissioner Sylvia Shapiro ruled the adoption wasn't final and Medeiros was still the baby's legal parent. The custody agreement requires Medeiros to take parenting classes and make monthly reports about the child's welfare so the case can be reviewed in six months. As Medeiros prepared for the trip home, the Stephenses' housekeeper and her boyfriend, Yolanda Segura and Zohelin Diaz, both 25-year-old Guatamalans, were arraigned on charges of murder. Police said they know of no motives. Rohan said experts believe Travis was old enough at the time of the slayings ``to be real affected by what happened to him,'' so meetings with a child psychologist can help Medeiros detect signs of emotional problems. Medeiros lives with her mother in Bellerica, Mass., and works at a state institution for the retarded. She has arranged full-time child care so she can continue working. ``At the time of the adoption, I was doing what I thought was best for him. Now I'm doing what's best for him again,'' Medeiros said, adding that she was so scared during the hearing that she didn't speak. ``I never really wanted to give him up in the first place,'' she said. Rohan said Medeiros at first was frightened by the new situation, by the prospect of failure and by media attention, but the lawyer said she detected a growing closeness between mother and child. ``He's a sweet, friendly little baby. He really is. He's obviously been very loved,'' Rohan said. ``I think he's starting to get to know her.'' Sebastopol attorney Allison Pharis, who handled the adoption, said Medeiros will ``be your basic hard-working, single mother trying to make it.'' The Stephenses' relatives now want an amicable relationship with her, she said.
<irrelevant> A young mother given a second chance to raise her child after the baby's adoptive parents were shot to death a few feet from his crib says she's now ready for motherhood because ``I've grown up a lot.'' ``I've been feeding him, changing him, clothing him and bathing him,'' Tracy Medeiros said Wednesday, a day after she successfully convinced a Marin County court she was ready for such responsibility and was awarded custody of the toddler. ``I've never been a mom before. I'm getting used to it. He's real happy,'' she said as she prepared to fly home to Massachusetts today. Medeiros gave Travis up for adoption nine months ago in hopes his new parents would provide the security and comforts she feared she couldn't after her boyfriend left her. At 17, she felt it was the right thing to do. But that decision was turned upside down last month, when Travis' adoptive parents, William and Tasia Stephens, were shot to death a few feet from the baby's crib at their home in Novato, about 25 miles north of San Francisco. The Stephenses' housekeeper and her boyfriend were arraigned Wednesday on charges of murder and pleaded innocent. Yolanda Segura and Zohelin Diaz, both 25-year-old illegal aliens from Guatemala, face a possible death sentence if convicted. A preliminary hearing was set for April 5. Novato police believe the shooting occurred after Segura told her boyfriend she had been sexually assaulted at the home of the slain couple, the San Francisco Chronicle reported today. Segura, however, may have been fired by the couple and investigators think she may have told Diaz the story to cover up the loss of the job, the newspaper reported without citing sources. On Tuesday, Superior Court Juvenile Commissioner Sylvia Shapiro ruled that the adoption, arranged before Travis' birth, had not been legally finalized, thereby paving the way for Medeiros to return with the baby to her mother's home in Billerica, Mass. ``Now I know I'm ready. I've grown up a lot,'' Medeiros, 18, said afterward. Shapiro required Medeiros to take parenting classes and make monthly reports to the court about the child's welfare. The reports will be shared with relatives of the slain couple, who also applied for custody of the child, and the case will be reviewed in six months. But Medeiros isn't worried about that now. ``I just care about my son,'' she said. ``Nothing else bothers me. I'm going to do what's best for him.''
</top>
<top>
<num> 71
<title> Border Incursions
<relevant> Israeli soldiers with powerful binoculars peer into the rocky expanse of southern Lebanon after warnings that Palestinian guerrillas opposed to the PLO's peace overtures may try to infiltrate Israel. Armed Palestinians have approached the barbed wire fence along the border twice, on Dec. 26 and Dec. 28, and six of them were killed by Israeli soldiers. Several rockets were fired into the region from Lebanon on Friday. Army officials say they believe radical factions of the Palestine Liberation Organization may step up their attempts to infiltrate and attack Israeli civilians to sabotage the PLO's movement toward negotiation after PLO chairman Yasser Arafat recognized Israel. Maj. Gadi, commander of a battalion stationed in this northern village, sees another new danger in a peace treaty signed in Beirut lass than two weeks ago by the PLO and Amal, the Lebanese Shiite Moslem militia. ``The Amal are acting as guides and bringing the terrorists up to the border,'' says Gadi, whose last name cannot be used under army regulations. To 25-year-old Capt. Yossi and other soldiers, all infiltrators are terrorists whose purpose is to attack civilian settlements, many of them collective farms that grow apples. There have been more than 20 major attempts to sneak into Israel from Lebanon this year, some of them by sea. Battles between infiltrators and Israeli troops have claimed the lives of five soldiers and more than 25 guerrillas. In the more than two months Gadi's soldiers have been stationed in Avivim, they have fought two battles with Lebanese guerrillas. Three guerrillas were killed, Gadi said, but ``we are lucky there are no casualties on our side.'' The three infiltrators carried Soviet-designed Kalashnikov rifles, grenades and rocket-propelled launchers. In the border sector next to Gadi's, Israeli soldiers escaped injury in two recent battles with Palestinian guerrillas. Army officials say the guerrillas' target was Kibbutz Manara, a collective farm visible from a hilltop lookout post near Avivim. Gadi, who at 29 has served 11 years in the army, says 23 civilian settlements lie in the 12-mile border strip under his command. Israel's elaborate border defenses against guerrilla attacks includes a security zone on the Lebanese side patrolled by Israeli soldiers and an Israeli-backed Christian militia in Lebanon. Near Avivim, the zone stretches from 1{ miles to seven miles north of the border. Mines are buried just inside Lebanon, and rusting rolls of concertina barbed wire are strung along both sides of the border. Touching the electronic border fence sets off alarms that army officers say can indicate to within about 100 yards where the trouble is. On the Israeli side, a road is patrolled by Israeli trucks and a dusty strip is swept frequently so that any footprints can be detected. Still, says Yossi, both Palestinian and Lebanese Shiite guerrillas keep trying to penetrate the barrier. ``It takes only five minutes to cut the fence,'' he says. Yossi says the infiltrators' trick is to try to sneak up as close as possible during the day, then cut through the fence at night. ``There are teen-agers sent into the border who don't stand a chance,'' he noted. The army says Palestinian guerrillas have carried leaflets saying they want to take civilian hostages to trade for colleagues jailed in Israel. Claims of responsibility often call for liberating Arab land lost with the creation of Israel in 1948. About 300 yards from the border, an Israeli collective farm called Kibbutz Malkiyya is protected by a soldier at the gate, a nearby army lookout post and rolls of concertina wire. Across the fence, Lebanese farmers can be seen tending fields neatly divided by stones and herding sheep. Arab villages sit on hilltops in the distance. ``It's green and nice until the shooting starts,'' says Gadi.
<relevant> Israeli troops operating north of Israel's self-proclaimed ``security zone'' in southern Lebanon killed eight guerrillas during a weekend clash, the army announced today. The clash was on Saturday night west of the village of Aaramta, 11 miles north of the Israeli border, the army said. It gave no explanation for the delay in the announcement. The military command said an Israeli force encountered a squad of Lebanese guerrillas and opened fire, killing eight. There were no Israeli casualties, according to the military command. No further details were released. But Israel army radio quoted reports from Lebanon as saying the squad apparently belonged to the radical Shiite Moslem movement Hezbollah, or Party of God. The clash, the first reported battle between Israeli soldiers and guerrillas in southern Lebanon this year, followed at least three attempts by guerrillas to infiltrate into Israel late in December. Israeli troops killed six guerrillas from radical Palestinian groups in two aborted infiltrations Dec. 26 and Dec. 28. Three other guerrillas drowned Dec. 26 on their way to Israel in a boat. The operation Saturday was one of Israel's rare incursions north of the security zone, a six-to-10 mile buffer strip north of the border. Israel carved out the zone in 1985 when it withdrew my militia and Israeli troops.
<relevant> Two Palestinian girls died Saturday from bullet wounds suffered in clashes with Israeli soldiers, and troops in the occupied lands wounded at least 19 other Arabs, hospital and army officials said. The deaths brought to four the number of young Arabs killed by army gunfire in two days and raised to 355 the number of Palestinians killed in the 13-month-old uprising in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Fifteen Israelis have died. In annexed east Jerusalem, police fired tear gas to disperse Arab stone-throwers. Israel radio said authorities safely dismantled a bomb left at a major road junction near the city. In east Jerusalem's Mukassed Hospital, 14-year-old Rana Al-Masri died of wounds suffered in a Jan. 7 clash in the West Bank city of Nablus, the army said. Arab reports said she was shot in the head with a plastic bullet. Residents in Nablus called a strike to mourn the girl's death, and Arab students left schools to march in protest of the killing, an Arab reporter in the city said. Arab hospital officials reported 16 Palestinians wounded in clashes with troops Saturday in the West Bank cities of Rafah and Nablus and in the Gaza Strip. The army confirmed seven wounded in those areas, plus three in the West Bank city of Bethlehem. Most of the wounded were teen-agers. A 12-year-old Palestinian girl, Hanadi Abu-Sultan, died at the Tel Hashomer Hospital near Tel Aviv after troops shot her in the head in a Jan. 10 clash at the Shati refugee camp in Gaza Strip, the military command said. On Friday, two 15-year-old Palestinians died after being shot by troops in clashes. The army, in an apparent effort to prevent disturbances, clamped a curfew on Shati, a beachside shantytown in Gaza City housing about 42,000 Palestinians. Curfews were also imposed on Rafah, Deir el-Balah and Nuseirat camps, which have a combined population of almost 100,000. But Palestinian protests, sparked by the death of Ms. Abu-Sultan and another Gaza teenager a day before, erupted in many areas of the southern strip. Merchants in Gaza continued a commercial strike begun Friday to protest Israeli raids to collect taxes. Non-payment of taxes is a major tactic of the revolt against Israeli occupation. Also Saturday, a senior Israeli defense official, Uri Lubrani, said the PLO has not conducted any attacks against northern Israel or Israel's self-proclaimed security zone in Lebanon since PLO chairman Yasser Arafat renounced terrorism. The zone is a 6- to 10-mile-wide strip along the border that Israel created in 1985. It is patrolled by a small contingent of Israeli forces and the allied South Lebanon Army militia. Palestine Liberation Organization groups have staged attacks on troops and militiamen patrolling the zone, fired rockets at Israel's northern settlements or attempted to infiltrate Israel on hostage-taking operations. Lubrani, coordinator of Israeli actions in Lebanon, said the hostilities have stopped since Arafat last month renounced terrorism and recognized Israel's right to exist. But Lubrani said he could not yet assess the PLO position. ``I think it is too early to judge, and time will say,'' he said on Israel radio. ``At the moment, they are leaning somehow toward a status quo, no violent actions. But how long this will last I cannot tell you. This can last until tonight.''
<relevant> Yasser Arafat's guerrillas have refrained from attacking Israeli targets for the past two months, observing an undeclared cease-fire that could give credibility to the PLO's peace initiative if it endures. Some Israeli officials have called attention to the lack of Fatah operations but have expressed doubt about Arafat's ability or even desire to make it last. ``We have not identified any flagrant act on the part of the PLO against the security zone or Israel since Arafat committed himself'' to end terrorism, said Uri Lubrani, a senior Defense Ministry official responsible for Lebanon policy. ``I think it is too early to judge'' if the truce would be lasting, Lubrani said on Israel radio. Foreign Ministry Spokesman Alon Liel said in an interview it was ``not 100 percent clear'' whether the cease-fire encompassed only Arafat's own Fatah guerrillas or all Palestine Liberation Organization factions. There have been two recent infiltration attempts by Syrian-based groups, one headed by Abu Nidal which is outside the PLO umbrella and the other, the Palestine Liberation Front, which is part of the PLO. Israeli soldiers killed six of the guerrillas. The last attack by Arafat's Fatah came on the eve of the PLO's declaration of statehood in mid-November when a five-member Fatah squad took U.N. soldiers and Lebanese civilians hostage for 18 hours. The guerrillas shot to death one Lebanese man before surrendering. Anat Kurz, a terrorism expert at Tel Aviv University's Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies, said in an interview that a cease-fire would have to be more enduring to overcome Israeli suspicion about the PLO. ``It will change people's mind if it lasts longer,'' she said. Kurz noted Arafat had never renounced armed struggle or the right to attack targets in Israel but said it was in Arafat's interest to suspend anti-Israeli attacks to give his initiative credibility, especially with Western countries. However, she said there were serious doubts among Israeli policymakers about whether Fatah could tolerate a long period of inaction without clear political gains. The center estimates Fatah has about 8,000 guerrillas, or half the total number of Palestinians under arms. Most are based in Lebanon. Many Israelis, especially those on the political right, view the 13-month Palestinian uprising in the occupied territories as a form of terrorism aimed at destroying Israel. Retired Maj. Gen. Shlomo Gazit, former head of military intelligence, said a PLO cease-fire would not be effective in dispelling Israeli doubts unless Arafat specified its duration and made it comprehensive. ``For Israelis, it doesn't matter which group stands behind an operation. The question that counts if whether attacks continue,'' he said in an interview. Gazit said the test of Arafat's credibility was whether he was willing or able to force dissident factions to observe a truce both in cross-border raids and in violent acts in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. ``If he can't, then he is no authority we should be talking to,'' said Gazit, noting Arafat succeeded in forcing opponents to observe a military stand in 1981 along the Israel-Lebanon border. The de facto truce already has touched off a public quarrel between Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and the armed forces chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Dan Shomron, who appeared to challenge Shamir's policy by pointing out the de facto cease-fire. Shamir described as ``superfluous'' Shomron's report to a parliament committee that Arafat's Fatah and other guerrillas under his authority had ``in practice halted hostile operations'' as well as preparations for attacks. Avi Pazner, Shamir's spokesman, confirmed the prime minister disagreed with chief of staff over the issue and accused Arafat of encouraging daily acts of terror. ``Mr. Shamir believes there is a lot of terrorism by Arafat in the territories (West Bank and Gaza Strip) and Israel proper,'' said Pazner, noting a Fatah cell recently had been uncovered in northern Israel. ``There are acts of terrorism daily in the territories and attempts in Israel, and Mr. Arafat encourages those,'' he added. The hawkish premier has opposed any conciliatory move toward the PLO in response to Arafat's renunciation of terrorism and acceptance of Israel. Shamir told the Jerusalem Post on Friday that the PLO sought to replace Israel and could not be trusted. ``I am sure there are those who understand that Israel cannot trust what the PLO says. We know them too well,'' he said. The daily newspaper Davar said security officials told the Cabinet this month it was their assessment that certain PLO groups were liable to attempt to carry out border raids but not under the PLO's name. The purpose of such attacks would be to gauge the U.S. response, it said. For Israeli doves, Arafat's declarations have been enough to trigger calls for the government to agree to talk to the PLO. Four members of parliament participated in a conference in Paris attended by PLO members but avoided face-to-face talks because of a 1986 Israeli laws outlawing such contacts. Yossi Sarid, a dovish lawmaker who supports negotiations with the PLO, wrote in the liberal daily Haaretz this week that Arafat's change of principles was more difficult to achieve than a change in policy on attacks. ``It's generally easier to change the pratical than the rhetorical. For Yasser Arafat it is much easlier to stop engaging in terror than to announce its end,'' said Sarid.
<relevant> A state of emergency was extended by Parliament for six months on Tuesday because of possible threats from South Africa and border raids by rebels from Mozambique, the government said. Home Affairs Minister Moven Mahachi told legislators that 93 Zimbabweans were slain by Mozambican rebels in 420 border raids in the last six months from July 13. Right-wing Mozambique National Resistance guerrillas mounted six attacks against troops inside Zimbabwe and were blamed for 32 armed robberies and 139 abductions in the same period, Mahachi said. He said the rebels ``continue to direct their attacks against the unarmed local population'' and burned and plundered stores, schools, clinics and commerical and farming centers. Mahachi cited sabotage and infiltration by agents of the South African government as a threat to national security. South Africa has mounted several attacks on facilities in Zimbabwe of the African National Congress, the main guerrilla organization fighting the government in Pretoria. Zimbabwe has been under a state of emergency since 1965, when it was introduced by former Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith's government to crack down on black nationalists. The emergency, which has been renewed by Parliament every six months since independence in 1980, allows for detention without trial. The latest extension was endorsed by 62 legislators present in the 100-seat House of Assembly in Harare. Some legislators called on the government to urge Mozambican authorities to hold talks with guerrilla leaders aimed at ending the 11-year conflict in Mozambique.
<irrelevant> An Eritrean rebel group that has waged Africa's longest civil war has agreed to negotiate with the Ethiopian government for an end to the 26-year-old rebellion, a Sudanese newspaper reported Sunday. Omar Reyh, chairman of the Eritrean Liberation Front-Unified Organization, said Sudan proposed the talks after a recent visit to Khartoum by an Ethiopian delegation, the Al-Siyassa newspaper reported. The newspaper quoted Reyh as saying he met Saturday with Sudanese Prime Minister Sadek Mahdi, who suggested Sudan as the site for the negotiations. ``Sudan proposed that there be a preparatory meeting between the Eritrean and Ethiopian sides to prepare for an official negotiating delegation,'' the rebel leader was quoted as saying. ``We have accepted this proposal.'' There was no immediate word from Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, about the Marxist government's position on the proposal. The governments of Sudan and Ethiopia often have exchanged charges of harboring each other's rebels, but relations have improved recently. Three factions of the Eritrean Liberation Front _ which have been fighting 26 years for independence of their northern Ethiopian region _ joined forces on Jan. 23, 1985, as the Eritrean Liberation Front-Unified Organization. The Eritrean revolt, exacerbated by famine, has forced about 850,000 Ethiopians across the border into Sudan in search of safety.
<irrelevant> The Soviet-backed Afghan government began a cease-fire New Year's Day, but U.S.-backed Moslem rebels rejected the truce and attacked government troops in two villages, Afghan radio said. The cease-fire offer was made Friday by Afghan President Najib, and the Soviet Union announced Saturday that its troops would join the truce. In a televised address to his nation Sunday, Najib complained that rebels have expanded operations against his government and repeated his offer of direct talks with them, Tass reported. He also rejected any future Afghan government that excludes the present leadership, the official Soviet news agency said. The rebels recently opened talks with Soviet representatives. Guerrillas attacked government troops Sunday in two villages in the eastern Nangarahar province, official Radio Kabul reported in a broadcast monitored in Islamabad. The radio said eight guerrillas were killed and seven wounded in the attack on the military posts in Gushta and Deh Bala. It gave no casualty figures for government troops, but it said soldiers launched mopping up operations against the rebels after the attack. Rebel leader Ahmad Shah said the cease-fire was ``a condemnable suggestion.'' The seven-party Guerrilla Alliance named Shah head of the Provisional Islamic Governmnent, which has yet to be installed. ``It only shows how desperate Najib is,'' Shah said in a statement issued in Peshawar. ``Najib has repeatedly proposed such meaningless cease-fires, but every time we rejected them.'' Rebel spokesman Masood Khalili said of Najib's offer: ``We did not start our fight because he asked us to. And we won't stop because he asked us to.'' Khalili belongs to the Jamiat-e-Islami guerrilla group. An estimated 100,000 Soviet soldiers marched into Afghanistan in 1979 to help the Marxist government fight Moslem rebels. Half of the Soviet troops left last year under the terms of a U.N.-brokered accord signed in Geneva by Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United States and the Soviet Union. The rest of the Red Army troops are to withdraw by Feb. 15. The U.S.-backed rebels, which also are supported by Pakistan, have demanded that a broad-based government be established in Kabul to take over the administration when the Soviets leave.
<irrelevant> Afghanistan reported scores of people killed and dozens wounded Monday, the second day of a New Year's cease-fire proclaimed by the Soviet-backed regime but rejected by the Moslem guerrillas. Two insurgent leaders criticized the Soviet Union for considering a role in a future Afghan government for former King Zahir Shah, who was overthrown in 1973 and lives in Italy. Iran said Yuri Vorontsov, the Soviet deputy foreign minister, arrived in Tehran for talks with Afghan insurgent leaders based in Iran. He met in Saudi Arabia last month with Burhanuddin Rabbani, leader of a seven-faction alliance based in Pakistan. At least 5.5 million Afghans have fled their country during a decade of civil war, nearly all of them to Pakistan or Iran, Moslem nations that are Afghanistan's neighbors on the east and west. Moslem insurgents began fighting after a communist coup in April 1978 and Soviet military forces entered Afghanistan in December 1979. An estimated 115,000 were there when a U.N.-mediated withdrawal agreement was signed April 14, 1988. Red Army soldiers started leaving May 15 and U.N. officials said half were gone by Aug. 15. All are to be out by Feb. 15. The insurgents, supported by the United States and Pakistan, have demanded an Islamic government after the Soviets leave and are trying to overthrow the regime of President Najib. Najib announced the cease-fire Friday, effective New Year's Day, and said government forces would not fire unless fired upon. Insurgent leaders believe Najib's government will fall when the Soviets are gone and rejected the truce because, they said, it would be a disadvantage to them at this stage. State radio in Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, said Monday that insurgents attacked Kandahar in the southeast, killing three civilians and wounding six. It said 31 guerrillas were killed and 27 wounded in an ensuing battle with security forces. Kabul radio, monitored in Islamabad, said the guerrillas fired on residential areas of Paktia, near the Pakistani border, and security forces returned the fire, killing 17 insurgents. Two more battles, in which 23 guerrillas were slain, occurred at Jalalabad and Gushta in Nangarahar province, the radio claimed. It did not mention government casualties and there was no independent confirmation of its reports. In Islamabad, insurgent leaders Rabbani and Gulbadin Hekmatyar criticized the Soviets for overtures to the former king. Vorontsov, who also is Moscow's ambassador to Kabul, met with Zahir Shah in Rome on Dec. 24. ``Zahir Shah will certainly not feel safe in the revolutionary Afghanistan,'' Rabbani said at a news conference, and Hekmatyar declared the king ``has no place in today's Afghanistan.'' ``The Afghan people will strongly resist any move against formation of an Islamic government in Kabul,'' Hekmatyar said.
<irrelevant> Six weeks before the promised Soviet withdrawal of all troops from Afghanistan, members of the Kabul government have moved dependents to new homes near the Soviet border, Western diplomats said today. The diplomats also said the country's ruling Peoples Democratic Party is changing its name and that of its newspaper in an effort to broaden its appeal and remove references to the bloody 1978 revolution it rode to power. The moves coincide with the exodus of Soviet civilian advisers from the Afghan capital and warnings from foreign embassies that their nationals leave the country unless they have essential business, the diplomats said. Under U.N.-mediated accords, half of the roughly 100,000 Soviet troops that had been in Afghanistan fighting Moslem guerrillas left the country by Aug. 15 and the balance are to be out by Feb. 15. Soviet troops intervened in Afghanistan to prop up the government in 1979. In the western part of the country, the Soviet pullout has begun from Shindad and Herat, said the Islamabad-based diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity. They quoted Afghan officials as saying the the main military withdrawal will begin Jan. 15. The diplomats said senior members of the Peoples Democratic Party of Afghanistan have been allocated apartments in Mazar-e-Sharief, 165 miles northeast of Kabul. Most of them have sent their dependents and household goods to town near the Soviet border. The Special Guard, which protects party and government officials, has increased to at least 4,000 members and is expected to rise to 20,000 to withstand guerrilla attacks when the Soviets leave, the diplomats said. Special Aeroflot flights have taken Soviet advisers from the capital, and the Soviet Embassy has been reduced to about 100 workers, the diplomats said. The ruling party will change its name to the Liberal, Democratic and National Party and adopt ``free market policies along the lines of Western Social Democratic parties,'' said one Western diplomat, citing Afghan sources. The name of the party newspaper has been changed from Truth of the April Revolution to the more moderate Message, diplomats said. ``The symbolism of junking the name of the (April 1978) revolution ... is probably only the first in a series of steps designated to paper over the image of the (party) as a revolutionary communist party,'' another diplomat said. A cease-fire President Najib offered on New Year's Day has been ignored by guerrillas and by government troops. State-run radio said 82 people _ including 79 guerrillas _ were killed and 40 wounded in fighting Sunday and Monday. It said the three others were civilians. There was no independent confirmation. Western diplomats reported that 132 people were killed in heavy bombing by the Soviet and Afghan air force just north of Kabul on Dec. 26 and Dec. 27. The diplomats estimated that 100 guerrillas, 20 civilians, and 12 government troops were killed in the bombing. Anti-communist guerrillas also have renewed attacks on other government-held cities. Tass today reported that security forces uncovered a guerrilla storehouse in the capital with 84 rockets, grenades and more than 300 rifles.
<irrelevant> Sweden and Poland have reached agreement on the border dividing their territorial waters in the Baltic, the Foreign Ministry said today. The agreement, which followed 10 years of negotiations, will be signed shortly when Foreign Minister Sten Andersson visits Warsaw, the Svenska Dagbladet daily said. Sweden will get 75 percent of the 200-square-mile area, which was under negotiation for 10 years, the ministry said in a statement. The area is southeast of the Swedish island of Gotland. In January 1988, Sweden and the Soviet Union resolved a similar dispute over 5,400 square miles. ``It's extremely satisfying that we have been able to reach an agreement with yet another country concerning the division of the Baltic,'' Andersson said in a statement. ``The agreement means that we have clarified the fishing rights and the exploitation of other riches from a very important part of the Baltic,'' he said. Sweden and Finland still are disputing Baltic territorial waters.
</top>
<top>
<num> 72
<title> Demographic Shifts in the U.S.
<relevant> The longstanding flow of retirees from the Northeast and Midwest to the South's balmier climes is on the decline, says a University of Florida professor chronicling the trend. ``We've come to expect that there will be a continually large flow of older people moving from the Northeast and Midwest states to the South. That's become part of our conventional wisdom,'' says Stephen Golant, a University of Florida geography professor. But that's starting to change. Golant, whose study is based on U.S. Census data from 1955 to 1985, says that while the 15-state Southern region had a net migration gain of 280,000 elderly people between 1975-80, the number of immigrants declined to 208,000 between 1980-85. Golant, author of ``A Place to Grow Old: The Meaning of Environment in Old Age,'' says one reason for the migration shift is that the number of ``young-old'' _ people ages 65-74 _ is declining at a faster rate than their ``old-old'' counterparts. ``The growth rates for the 65-74 age group in the Northeast and Midwest, which began declining in the mid-1980s, will continue to decline substantially throughout the 1990s and into the first part of the 21st century,'' he said. ``This will reduce the pool of potential migrants who might relocate to the South.'' While the 75-plus population will grow at a faster rate than the young-old, these rates will still be lower than in the 1970s and early 1980s. ``More importantly, the age-75 group has consistently been less likely to move from state to state or from region to region,'' he said. One consequence of this graying of the population, Golant said, is that scarce resources may be taxed even further. ``Since the old-old will represent an increasingly higher proportion of the total elderly population in Florida and other Southern states, it's likely that there will be an increased need for long-term care facilities, home-care facilities, skilled nursing and the like.'' He said there may even be some reverse migration: from the South back to the Midwest and Northeast. ``To the extent that states like Florida are not increasing their health care and long-term care facilities, it's reasonable to predict that the more dependent and frail elderly population in the South will return to their home states, where they would be closer to their families and to service opportunities,'' he said.
<relevant> President Reagan leaves an America that's older, eats less red meat, gives birth to fewer babies, is less likely to divorce and has 16,741,546 more residents than when he took over the White House eight years ago. The Census Bureau estimated the population at 246,879,546 as of Jan. 1 of this year. When Reagan took office in 1981, it stood at 230,138,000. That means an increase of 16,741,546 people in eight years. Or a population growth of 5,749 people-a-day under the Reagan administration. Just as well, because the extra wage earners will be needed to help pay a national debt which grew sharply over the period, rising from $994 billion in 1981 to an anticipated $2.87 trillion by the end of this year. Reagan's California is still the most populous state, of course, and getting more entrenched every day. New York and Texas remain second and third. But Florida, which ranked seventh in 1980, was up to fourth place by 1987, having passed Pennsylvania, Illinois and Ohio on the way. Many of those new Floridians are retirees. Americans are older, a bit, on average. In 1980, the median age of all Americans was 30 years. That means half were 30 or older and half under 30. By 1987 the nation's median age had risen to 32.1, despite all the new babies contributing to the overall population growth. Longer lives are a chief reason for the rising median age. When the oldest president took office, national life expectancy was 74.2 years and 4.4 percent of the people were aged 75 and over. By 1987, life expectancy was up to 74.9 and nearly 5 percent were in the 75-and-older age group. The nation's death rate fell from 8.8 per 1,000 people in 1980 to 8.7 in 1987. At the other end of the lifespan, infant mortality has declined sharply, from 12.6 infant deaths per 1,000 live births in 1980 to 10 in 1987. Perhaps helping in this was the increase in physicians during this period. In 1980 there were 211 doctors for every 100,000 Americans, while by 1985 that had climbed to 237 per 100,000. The nation's birth rate has dropped during the Reagan years. The National Center for Health Statistics reported that 15.9 babies were born in 1980 for every 1,000 Americans. By 1987 that was down to 15.7. The number of orphans has also dropped, from 52,000 children who had lost both parents in 1980 to 30,000 in 1986. Marriage seems to have grown somewhat less attractive during the eight-year Reagan span. In 1980 there were 10.6 marriages for every 1,000 people. By 1987 that rate had fallen to 9.9 per 1,000. The number of unmarried couples living together rose 63 percent to 2.6 million from 1980 to 1988. At the same time, divorce has become less common, with the rate dropping from 5.2 per 1,000 in 1980 to 4.8 in 1987. Overall, though, the majority of households still consist of families that include a married couple _ though the share slipped from 60.8 percent to 56.9 percent from 1980 to 1988. The divorce rate has fallen _ even though the number of lawyers in the country grew from 542,205 in 1980 to 655,191 in 1985. Crime offered fewer job opportunities for lawyers, too. The reported crime rate fell from 5,950 per 100,000 people in 1980 to 5,480 in 1986. But the populations of the federal and state state prisons climbed from 315,974 in 1980 to 523,922 in 1986. On a more individual front, Americans have made some changes in their personal habits in recent years. In 1980 U.S. residents ate an average of 157.2 pounds of red meat. By 1986 than had fallen to 150.5 pounds. At the same time fish consumption climbed from 12.8 pounds to 14.7 pounds. Americans eat a lot more chicken, 59.1 pounds, up from 50.1 pounds in 1980. Grain consumption jumped from 116.9 pounds to 129.6 pounds while the average for fresh vegetables went from 72.6 pounds to 79.4 pounds and fresh fruit rose from 86.7 pounds to 91.4 pounds per person per year. Alcohol imbibing fell during the 1980 to 1986 period, from 29.3 gallons to 27.6 gallons per capita, even though total consumption of beverages rose from 135.7 gallons to 140.3 gallons. Soft drinks gained, from 37.8 gallons to 45.6 gallons over the period, while juices increased from 6.3 gallons to 7.3 gallons. There were modest declines reported in consumption of milk, coffee and tea. At another level, the United States grew during the Reagan years _ or at least came to assert an economic interest over millions more square miles than it did before Reagan. On March 10, 1983, Reagan proclaimed an Exclusive Economic Zone, extending U.S. interests to the area 200 miles off the coasts. The EEZ is not a claim to jurisdiction over territorial waters, but it amounts to an assertion of U.S. mineral and fishing rights within the entire zone. However, foreign ships and aircraft can still pass freely through the economic zone. The EEZ totals 4.4 million square miles, larger than the nation's 3.6 million square miles.
<relevant> The 150-year-old rush to live in the Golden State has swelled the population to 28.3 million, making one of every nine people in the nation a Californian, researchers said Monday. The population estimate for the fiscal year ending last July 1, up a record 662,000 over the year before, places the nation's most populous state more than 10 million people ahead of the next largest state, New York, with 17.8 million, said officials in the state Finance Department's Demographic Research Unit. ``We just have too much to offer everyone, I guess,'' said John Malson, a manager in the unit. The migration of people into California, which started with the Gold Rush of 1849, outstripped the number who left in 1987-88, adding 372,000 to the population and accounting for 56 percent of the overall increase, he said. The gain through migration, though a continuing trend, was the greatest of modern times, exceeded only by the fluctuations due to World War II, Malson said. The previous year's gain was 366,000. The other 44 percent in population growth was due to a greater number of births than deaths, he said. Births totaled 504,000; deaths, 215,000. California's 28.3 million total population was up 2.4 percent over the 27.6 million on July 1, 1987.
<relevant> Quite a few people know the way to San Jose. The city once best known as the ``Prune Capital of the World'' has surpassed San Francisco to become California's third largest city, a state report says. San Jose, which lies at the heart of the high-tech Silicon Valley region, grew by 10,000 in 1988 to a total population of 738,400, according to the recent report by the state Finance Department's demographic research unit. San Francisco declined by 4,800 people to a population of 731,700 as of Jan. 1, state officials said. At the beginning of 1988, San Francisco had 736,500 residents, 8,200 more than its San Francisco Bay rival 40 miles to the south. Now, 6,700 more people live in San Jose. Los Angeles, the state's largest city, grew 1 percent to 3.4 million, while the second largest, San Diego, increased 2.7 percent to 1.09 million. Commenting on the change in his city's status, state Assemblyman John Burton of San Francisco said, ``It's not the quantity, it's the quality.''
<relevant> A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit by 42 congressmen and three states seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens in the 1990 census, in part because they could not prove they will lose seats in Congress by reapportionment. The plaintiffs said they feared states with more illegal aliens would get a disproportionate number of House seats and electoral votes, thus diminishing the political power of states with fewer illegal aliens. The Census Bureau argued it is constitutionally obligated to count everyone, including illegal aliens, for congressional apportionment and has done so since the first census in 1790. House seats are redistributed every 10 years to reflect population changes. U.S. District Judge William L. Standish said, in a ruling filed late Monday, that the plaintiffs cannot show they would be hurt by the 1990 census because ``they are unable to establish how many illegal aliens will be present ..., in which states these illegal aliens will reside, or to what extent the illegal population will come forward to be counted.'' The lawsuit was filed last year by the congressmen, led by Pennsylvania Republican Tom Ridge, and the states of Pennsylvania, Kansas and Alabama. Ridge said Tuesday that Standish dismissed the lawsuit ``on technical, legal grounds and not on the merits of the Census Bureau's plans.'' Ridge, recently named vice chairman of a House subcommittee that oversees the Census Bureau, said he may appeal Standish's decision and will introduce legislation in Congress to change the method of the 1990 count. Standish's opinion noted that the congressmen's demographer offered estimates that up to 5.6 million illegal aliens will be counted in 1990. The demographer predicted a gain of up to four congressional seats for California and one seat for Texas, and the possible loss of one seat each for Georgia, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Minnesota and Michigan. The judge noted another congressional analyst had predicted gains for California, Texas, New York, Illinois and Florida at the expense of Pennsylvania, Kansas, West Virginia and Alabama. But, the judge said, ``Based on the evidence offered, it is sheer speculation as to the identities of the states that will be affected by the inclusion of illegal aliens.'' Standish also said the state governments of Pennsylvania, Kansas and Alabama cannot show they would be damaged by ``reduced power or prestige'' with the loss of congressional representation. He said only the residents of the states might suffer and they did not file the lawsuit. Standish noted that the non-profit Federation of American Immigration Reform, a co-plaintiff in the lawsuit, filed a similar legal action in 1980 that was dismissed by a three-judge federal panel in the District of Columbia. Ridge was joined by 19 colleagues from Pennsylvania, and others from Kansas, West Virginia, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, North Carolina, Oregon, Virginia, Wisconsin, Alabama, California and Maryland.
<irrelevant> The nation's civilian unemployment rate fell to 5.3 percent in December, a 14-year-low, with the service sector leading the way in the creation of 279,000 new jobs, the government reported today. In its final unemployment report of the Reagan presidency, the Labor Department said the jobless rate dropped 0.1 percentage point from November, reaching 5.3 percent for the third time this year. The unemployment rate hit 5.3 percent in June and October. That was the lowest point since it was 5.1 percent in May 1974. The department said that 3,798,000 jobs were created in 1988, the most since 1984, when employers reporting adding 3.95 million people to their payrolls. Janet Norwood, commissioner of labor statistics, said 3 million of the new jobs last year were on the service side of the economy, including 700,000 in retail trade. The stock market had rallied on Thursday in anticipation of today's jobless report. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 12.86 points on Thursday to 2,190.54, surpassing its 1988 closing peak of 2,183.50 reached Oct. 21. It was the highest level for the Dow Jones industrial average since it stood at 2,246.74 on Oct. 16, 1987, the day before it lost 508 points on what became known as ``Black Monday.'' The December sales gains reported by the large retailers exceeded many analysts' expectations. They estimated industrywide sales rose in a range of 6 percent to 7.5 percent, an improvement over the 6 percent gain forecast before the start of the season. ``It turned out to be a good Christmas,'' Jeffrey Edelman, a retail industry analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., said. The outcome came as a surprise because retailers, mired in a sales slump since early 1987, expected their customers to continue shopping cautiously this season. Consumers, burdened by debt and paying more for services and necessities, have been forced to cut back on their retail outlays. Sears, Roebuck and Co., the nation's largest retailer, said its overall December sales rose 12.1 percent, while K mart Corp. said its overall sales were up 10.7 percent for the month. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said its overall sales rose 31 percent in December but J.C. Penney Co. Inc. said its overall sales fell 1.5 percent for the month. Booming year-end car and truck sales at General Motors Corp. and a jump in car sales at Ford Motor Co. contributed to overall increases in domestic sales of cars and light trucks in 1988. Manufacturers said sales of U.S.-made cars and light trucks averaged 44,477 a day in the Dec. 21-31 period, up 20.7 percent from the same period in 1987. For the year, domestic car and light-truck sales reached 11.7 million, averaging 38,060 a day in 1988, up 7.5 percent from 1987. Imported car and light truck sales in 1988 slumped to 3.7 million, an average of 12,087 a day, compared with 4.1 million, or 13,229 a day, in 1987. Combined domestic and foreign car and light truck sales totaled 15.4 million in 1988, up from 14.9 million in 1987 and approaching the 15.7 million of 1985, the second-best sales year ever. The record year was 1986, when 16.3 million vehicles were sold.
<irrelevant> Unemployment dipped to 5.3 percent in December, the government said Friday, matching a 14-year low as President Reagan's eight years in office neared an end. The jobless rate averaged 5.5 percent for all of last year, down from 6.2 percent in 1987. The Labor Department said December's civilian unemployment rate was down 0.1 percentage point from November, hitting 5.3 percent for the third time in 1988, the lowest level since the 5.1 percent of May 1974. Service-producing industries led in the creation of 279,000 new jobs last month, bringing to nearly 3.8 million the number of jobs created during the year, the most since 1984's total of 3.95 million, the department said. The report had little impact on Wall Street, where traders had predicted the numbers, and the stock market posted a modest gain. The unemployment figures did nothing to relieve expectations that the Federal Reserve might tighten credit further in its campaign to keep inflation from reviving. ``It shows that the economy has not shifted to a lower gear,'' said economist Roger Brimmer of Data Resources Inc., a Lexington, Mass., forecasting service. ``With the economy continuing to operate at these levels and continuing to grow as rapidly as it is, inflation is going to keep creeping up.'' Average hourly earnings, however, remained unchanged for the third consecutive month at $9.45. This statistic is closely watched for signs of inflation, but wage growth from December 1987 to December 1988 was just 3.4 percent, behind the inflation rate of 4.4 percent. ``The economy continues to grow robustly and wage rates are not accelerating very much right now,'' said Washington-based economist Michael K. Evans. ``But I still think there is higher inflation ahead, perhaps in spite of this report and not because of it. We could get a big jolt in inflation in January.'' At the White House, presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the figures ``indicate that the longest peacetime expansion continued through its 73rd month. ... The economy is on a strong footing and proceeding moderately and smoothly.'' President-elect Bush, who takes over for Reagan in two weeks, used the occasion to repeat his no-tax pledge. Asked whether the government could do anything to bring unemployment down further, Bush was not specific but said: ``There's a lot of things where we can help in an effort to move unemployment lower. But one way to not do that is to slow the economy down by going out there and raising taxes.'' When Reagan took office in January 1981, unemployment was 7.5 percent. It rose to 10.8 percent late in the 1981-82 recession, the highest level in four decades, before beginning to decline. Janet Norwood, commissioner of labor statistics, said 3 million of the new jobs last year were on the service side of the economy, including 700,000 in retail trade. More than 400,000 were in manufacturing and 300,000 in construction. Rebounding exports helped in manufacturing, particularly the machinery industry. Factory workers continued to average four hours of overtime a week in December. Of the 279,000 new jobs in December, 107,000 were in the business and health services industries. Retail trade added 52,000 new jobs for the month, most of them in department stores during the Christmas season. Manufacturers reported adding 34,000 people to their payrolls in December, well behind the 85,000 monthly gain they averaged in October and November. The department said the number of jobless people fell by 9,000 to 6,554,000 last month. It reported there were 950,000 ``discouraged workers'' _ people who want jobs but are not included in the unemployment rate because they have given up looking for work in the belief that none is available. That figure has been constant since early 1987. The number of workers employed part-time because they cannot find full-time work also was unchanged over the past year, remaining at 5.3 million. An alternate jobless rate that includes in the labor force the 1.7 million members of the armed forces stationed in the United States was also 5.3 percent last month, unchanged from November. The unemployment rate among adult men and adult women remained unchanged at 4.4 percent in December. Joblessness among teen-agers rose from 14.1 percent in November to 14.8 percent. The Labor Department said unemployment rates among other demographic groups were: _Blacks, 11.6 percent, up from 11.2 in November. _Black teen-agers, 29.3 percent, down from 29.9. _Hispanics, 7.6 percent, down from 8 percent. _Whites, 4.6 percent, unchanged.
<irrelevant> Soviet officials will conduct a census beginning Thursday that they say will give them a much broader understanding of the population and citizens' living conditions. More than a million students, teachers and white-collar workers will fan out across the vast country from Jan. 12-19 with a questionnaire that for the first time will ask a series of questions about housing conditions. But Mikhail S. Korolev, chairman of the State Statistics Committee, said no questions will be asked about religion, or about salaries. Previous surveys have determined that the population does not give reliable answers about their income, he said. ``Some people hide their income. Some people increase it before other members of the family. Some people fantasize,'' he said. Korolev pledged that all responses will be confidential, sealed by census workers after the information is fed into computer. He said the results will be made public, but not as early as officials originally thought. ``There will be no disclosure of personal data to anyone,'' Korolev told a news conference. The census has been extended until Feb. 11 in Armenia because of the Dec. 7 earthquake, and that means initial figures won't be available in April as scientists originally thought, Korolev said. Some Soviet publications contend that dictator Josef Stalin falsified census data in the 1930s and destroyed a 1937 census to hide massive deaths caused by his collectivization of agriculture and purges. Korolev said he knew of no cases of falsifying census data, but that the results from the 1937 census were missing. In 1934, Stalin announced a population figure of 168 million, even though the official figure was 165.7 million and one scientist put the actual figure as low as 158 million. Soviet reference books put the population at the time of the 1917 Bolshevik Revolution at 163 million, and Korolev said experts estimate the population now is about 287 million. The head of the statistics committee said questions about housing that will appear for the first time include the age of housing in which respondents live, what the buildings are made of, whether the housing is state-owned or cooperative, the number of rooms and the floor area. That list of questions, developed along United Nations guidelines, will give officials an idea of what kinds of housing are most durable as well as firm data about what kinds of housing Soviets are living in, he said. Housing is one of the sore spots in efforts to improve living conditions, and about one in five still lives in communal housing. Much of the housing, such as that which collapsed in the Armenian earthquake, is of poor construction. The last full census 10 years ago showed a population of 262 million. A pilot census was taken five years ago.
<irrelevant> While most federal agencies are struggling with funding cuts or small raises, the Census Bureau would get nearly triple its current amount under President Reagan's 1990 budget. But don't get too excited, it's only temporary. Reagan proposed Census Bureau spending of $1.47 billion for fiscal 1990, up from about $250 million in 1988 and about $559 million in the current year. The reason is the ``decennial'' census. The Constitution requires the bureau to count all residents of the United States every 10 years. The next count will be conducted April 1, 1990. That requires opening dozens of offices across the country, mailing out more than 100 million census forms, sending an army of people to the thousands of homes where folks fail to respond, and compiling the tidal wave of data to be collected. Overall, the 1990 national head count is expected to cost $2.6 billion, but not all in one year. The costs are spread over several years because of the lengthy preparation of forms and maps and offices and computers.
<irrelevant> Jobs in financial services, one of the engines of growth in the metropolitan economy, declined in New York City for the first time in more than a decade during 1988, according to a yearend review that shows the nightmare of Black Monday has yet to fade in the Big Apple. The area encompassing New York City and northeastern New Jersey experienced job growth in almost all other industries, but at the slowest rate in the past six years, the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reported Tuesday. Between December 1987 and October 1988, the region added 99,000 jobs for a total of 8.22 million, said Samuel I. Ehrenhalt, regional commissioner of the bureau. The increase represented an annual growth rate of 1.5 percent, compared to the national growth rate of 3.4 percent, he said. New York City's overall gain was less than 1 percent in 1988, or 23,000 new jobs _ proof that the city's ``economy has clearly lost momentum in the aftermath of the (October 1987) stock market crash,'' Ehrenhalt said. ``Jobs on Wall Street declined by 12,000 after adding an average of 11,000 jobs a year in the prior five years, a period in which the securities industry accounted for a fourth of all job growth in the city's private economy.'' But area unemployment rates were mostly lower than the national average, according to Ehrenhalt's review. Joblessness in the region was 3.9 percent for the first 10 months of 1988, down from 4.5 percent the previous year. Only Hudson County in New Jersey, with 6.4 percent, was higher than the national rate of 5.6 percent. Eight of the 23 counties of the region were below 3 percent unemployment and three of them _ Hunterdon, Morris and Somerset in New Jersey _ were below 2{ percent. New York City showed an 18-year low in joblessness, 4.9 percent for the first 11 months of 1988. The decline was across the board, reflected in better figures regardless of race, sex and age. But Ehrenhalt added that the lower rates ``primarily reflect cutbacks in the number of job seekers.'' Nationally, about 66 percent of the working age population is active in the job market, but in New York City the figure is only 55 percent, he said. Another exception to the general job expansion in the region was blue-collar factory work. Manufacturing here continued its decades-old decline, falling to a post-World War II low of 1.17 million jobs in the 23-county metropolitan area, Ehrenhalt said. The slowdown in growth was least pronounced in the New Jersey portion of the metropolitan area, Ehrenhalt said. In northeastern New Jersey, private sector employment increased by 2.1 percent last year, compared to 3 percent the previous year, but it still amounted to 42,000 added jobs. Public hiring also picked up slightly. Long Island and the suburban counties north of the city added 16,000 jobs, a 1.1 percent increase, but far below the growth of the previous four years. The region covered by Ehrenhalt's report takes in the five counties of New York City and the New York state counties of plus Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam, plus the New Jersey counties of Bergen, Essex, Hudson, Hunterdon, Middlesex, Monmouth, Morris, Sussex, Ocean, Passaic, Somerset and Union.
</top>
<top>
<num> 73
<title> Demographic Shifts across National Boundaries
<relevant> A United Nations refugee expert visiting the southern tip of Texas said Wednesday she has seen hundreds of Central American emigrants camping in makeshift tents and crowded into dilapidated motels. ``Clearly these people are experiencing difficulty and hardship, and this is one thing I wanted to come down and see about,'' said Susan Timberlake of the Washington, D.C., office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. Ms. Timberlake arrived in the lower Rio Grande Valley on Tuesday night and planned to stay until Thursday visiting immigrant shelters and meeting with local officials and Immigration and Naturalization Service representatives. Ms. Timberlake said as of Wednesday she had not observed any apparent violations of international law. Al De Leon, assistant INS district director for examinations in Harlingen, said no violations of U.N. protocol were relayed to him in his meeting with Ms. Timberlake. ``Basically, she is down here to observe and learn about the situation,'' he said. More than 30,000 Central Americans have crossed the Rio Grande illegally near Brownsville and sought political asylum since the end of May when the INS started keeping count of the growing flood of ``other than Mexican'' newcomers. The concentration of Central Americans in the valley has increased sharply since Dec. 16 when the INS started requiring asylum-seeking immigrants in the area to submit their applications at the INS' Harlingen office and to receive word of approval or denial here. The U.N. refugee office's interest in Cameron County, the state's southernmost, was not a result of the new INS procedure, ``but by the fact that there are large numbers of asylum-seekers here, and that's what the UN is interested in,'' said Ms. Timberlake. The office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, based in Geneva, was established to protect refugees' rights. More than 100 countries have subscribed to a 1951 convention and-or a 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees. Each defines who is a refugee and outlines proper conditions for handling refugees. Much of the U.N. language was incorporated into U.S. law with the 1980 Refugee Act. Refugees are defined in part as people who are outside their country because of well-founded fear of persecution. ``When I go back, I'll discuss what I've seen with my office and with my headquarters in Geneva, and we'll sit down with the (U.S) government and discuss it,'' Ms. Timberlake said. A main concern of the U.N. body is whether refugees have adequate access to the asylum process, she said. Asylum-seekers previously were allowed to travel to their destination cities, usually Miami or Los Angeles. A huge backlog of asylum cases in those cities and a large number of unwarranted asylum claims prompted the INS to adopt the new procedure, officials said. INS officials have said most of the applicants are seeking economic betterment, not fleeing persecution, and therefore do not qualify for asylum. Those denied asylum will be asked to leave the country or face deportation, but may appeal their cases. Because there is at least a 30-day wait for an answer from the INS, many of the immigrants with no money and no place to go have begun camping out in the brush under discarded sheets of plastic. A shanty town of plastic roofs continues to grow outside the Catholic Church-sponsored Casa Oscar Romero shelter for Central Americans southeast of Brownsville. Casa Romero is limited to a capacity of 200 by court order. Ms. Timberlake said she had visited that camp site, dotted with human feces, where 250 people stayed Tuesday night, and the Amber Motel, a condemned structure in Brownsville that remains packed with Central Americans.
<relevant> Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union soared to an eight-year high in 1988, but the number of those opting to go to Israel continued to decline, an agency which helps resettle them said today. Regina Boucault, spokeswoman for the Geneva-based Intergovernmental Committee for Migration, said 3,510 December arrivals at the Vienna transit center raised the 1988 total of Jewish emigrants to 20,082. Only 114, or 3.2 percent of the December arrivals, said they wanted to continue on to Israel, Ms. Boucault said. For all of 1988, the share was 7.1 percent, she said. Between 1971 and 1978, more than three-fourths of all emigrants settled in Israel. In the past three years, the share had been at about one-fourth before taking a new plunge in 1988 when Israel had to cope with growing economic problems and a Palestinian uprising in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip. In 1987, 24.4 percent of the total of 8,011 chose to go to the Jewish state. Emigration was at an all-time low in 1984 with only 904 Jews allowed to leave the Soviet Union. In 1980, 21,470 emigrated. In both years, the share of those going on to Israel was one-third. The 1988 arrivals raised to 281,934 the number of Jewish emigrants since the resettlement program began in 1971. The largest official exodus, 51,328, was recorded in 1979, before the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan chilled East-West relations. Most of the emigrants who do not opt for Israel go to the United States via another transit camp in Rome, where they receive language training and undergo other procedures prior to resettlement, Ms. Boucault said. A small minority choose Australia, Canada and West European countries as their future homes.
<relevant> Central American immigrants streamed through southern Texas on Tuesday, as a court order blocked the federal policy that had kept those applying for asylum from going on to their U.S. destinations. ``This morning when we opened up there were a lot of people in line,'' said Virginia Kice, spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Harlingen District at the southern tip of the state. ``I'd estimate there were between 600 and 800 people in line when we opened up shop.'' She said the crowd was one of the largest the Harlingen INS office had seen, and was ``reminiscent of the last days of the amnesty program'' last year when undocumented aliens, primarily Mexicans, received legal status under a landmark immigration-reform law. The asylum-seeking immigrants Tuesday were taking advantage of a three-day temporary restraining order issued Monday by U.S. District Judge Filemon Vela that blocks an INS procedure that kept them from leaving the area. Greyhound Lines tripled its normal Houston-bound passenger loads Tuesday on the morning and afternoon buses from Brownsville and Harlingen, a company spokesman said. ``Most of the people, about 75 percent, are going to Miami,'' said George Gravley, Greyhound spokesman in Dallas. Gravley said similar heavy loads were expected for Wednesday. U.S. Rep. Solomon Ortiz said meanwhile that asylum-seekers who remain in southern Texas will receive federal humanitarian relief _ possibly shelter _ while their cases are decided. Ortiz, a Democrat from Corpus Christi, joined a special Justice Department team Tuesday in taking a first-hand look at the immigrants' needs. ``What makes it a crisis is ... this county doesn't have the money or the infrastructure to provide the services, '' Ortiz said Tuesday after meeting with officials from the Justice Department's Community Relations Service. ``The county has been impacted by a federal policy and we ought to do something about it,'' the congressman said. He said the three-person Justice Department team probably would stay in southern Texas for two or three days observing and meeting with local and federal officials. Ortiz said he expected the federal team to recommend food, shelter and medical assistance. The group was unavailable for comment, he said, explaining that the team wanted to avoid publicity. The problem of homeless immigrants worsened here after the INS on Dec. 16 adopted a procedure designed to keep asylum-seekers in the lower Rio Grande Valley during the 30 days or more it would take to decide their claims for refugee status. Hundreds of Central Americans, no longer able to travel to their U.S. destinations to seek asylum, began camping in empty lots and condemned buildings.
<relevant> The nation's mushrooming Hispanic population needs increased education, job training and welfare assistance to blend effectively into American society, the authors of a new study said Wednesday. Hispanics, while growing by 34 percent to 20 million in this decade, still lack an effective voice in society, according to population researchers Cary Davis and Rafael Valdivieso. Policy makers need to find ways to ease the transition of Latinos into American society, including bringing them into the economic and political process, Valdivieso, vice president of the Washington-based Hispanic Policy Development Project, said at a news conference. In the past, new arrivals in America have had available the springboard of low-skill jobs to help them get started in society, commented Davis, of the private Population Reference Bureau. But U.S. society is moving away from industrial and other jobs that often need little training, with available employment often requiring higher education and skill levels, Davis said. Thus, he explained, the ``ladder'' of jobs climbed by past minority groups to make a place in society is being pulled from the grasp of Hispanics. ``National attention, we think, is required,'' said Davis in releasing a study written by the two men. Entitled ``U.S. Hispanics: Challenging Issues for the 1990s,'' it is published by the Population Reference Bureau, an independent research group. Hispanics will become the nation's largest minority sometime in the next century, outnumbering blacks, if current population trends continue, explained Valdivieso. And the fact that Hispanics have a younger age structure than the rest of society means more of their numbers will be in the work force at a time when large numbers of other Americans are retiring. Valdivieso said programs are needed to help keep Hispanics in school and to provide them with job training and assistance in making the transition from school to the job market. Raising the minimum wage would be important, especially for young couples who are parents, said Valdivieso. And, for the same group, finding ways to provide medical assistance is a major consideration, he said. He called for more English-language classes for immigrants, while preserving bilingual public services; more access to welfare programs; efforts to reduce discrimination against Hispanics; programs to help Hispanics become more active politically and increased corporate attention to Latinos as consumers and employees.
<relevant> As many as 2,000 Nicaraguans now able to leave Texas because of a judge's order likely will come to Miami this week, taxing the capacity of local government, officials said Thursday. Earlier this week, a federal judge in Texas issued a temporary restraining order lifting an immigration policy that restricted immigrants to the area near the Mexican border. Officials there say that probably 5,000 exiles are affected, and a Miami shelter official, Cristobal Mendoza, said the city will probably have 2,000 new arrivals by the weekend. Managers of bus stations in South Texas told reporters that 95 percent or more of the Nicaraguans who left there Wednesday were going to Miami. Permission was given to 739 exiles to leave Brownsville on Wednesday. As the buses pulled into Miami on Wednesday and Thursday, hopeful Nicaraguans climbed off, eager to reunite with their families and find jobs. But city officials, who originally thought they would spend this week getting ready for the Super Bowl, say the aliens may not find the haven they expect. ``The inn is full,'' City Manager Cesar Odio said, referring to Miami Bobby Maduro Stadium, home now to more than 250 immigrants. And those already there must be out by Jan. 25 _ when the Baltimore Orioles baseball team will arrive for spring training. The judge's order in Texas was to relieve the conditions of aliens stuck there for weeks, many living in squalid conditions. Now they can stay wherever they like while they wait for their cases to be reviewed, and many have chosen Miami. Dade County Manager Joaquin Avino said some county land is being cleared for as many as 60 trailers, which will provide temporary housing. New immigration rules are responsible for much of the confusion surrounding this latest influx of immigrants, Perry Rivkind, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said Thursday. In the past, those who arrived illegally in the United States were entitled to work permits if they could not be interviewed about their applications for asylum within 60 days. But applicants now must get a favorable ruling from the INS before getting a permit. ``What people don't understand that come here illegally today is that the U.S. Congress passed employer sanctions,'' said Rivkind. ``Without the work permit, the employers are not going to chance getting into trouble.'' Many of the aliens said they headed to Miami because they had heard the city was supportive of them. ``Throughout Mexico, they kept on telling us about Bobby Maduro stadium,'' said Sergio Castillo. He passed through Mexico crossing the Rio Grande on Sunday and arrived in Miami by bus Wednesday. ``So I came here. But I thought everybody could enter.'' Castillo and 14 others were locked out of the stadium Wednesday night. He said he spent much of that night walking the streets, looking for a place to stay.
<irrelevant> Israeli soldiers with powerful binoculars peer into the rocky expanse of southern Lebanon after warnings that Palestinian guerrillas opposed to the PLO's peace overtures may try to infiltrate Israel. Armed Palestinians have approached the barbed wire fence along the border twice, on Dec. 26 and Dec. 28, and six of them were killed by Israeli soldiers. Several rockets were fired into the region from Lebanon on Friday. Army officials say they believe radical factions of the Palestine Liberation Organization may step up their attempts to infiltrate and attack Israeli civilians to sabotage the PLO's movement toward negotiation after PLO chairman Yasser Arafat recognized Israel. Maj. Gadi, commander of a battalion stationed in this northern village, sees another new danger in a peace treaty signed in Beirut lass than two weeks ago by the PLO and Amal, the Lebanese Shiite Moslem militia. ``The Amal are acting as guides and bringing the terrorists up to the border,'' says Gadi, whose last name cannot be used under army regulations. To 25-year-old Capt. Yossi and other soldiers, all infiltrators are terrorists whose purpose is to attack civilian settlements, many of them collective farms that grow apples. There have been more than 20 major attempts to sneak into Israel from Lebanon this year, some of them by sea. Battles between infiltrators and Israeli troops have claimed the lives of five soldiers and more than 25 guerrillas. In the more than two months Gadi's soldiers have been stationed in Avivim, they have fought two battles with Lebanese guerrillas. Three guerrillas were killed, Gadi said, but ``we are lucky there are no casualties on our side.'' The three infiltrators carried Soviet-designed Kalashnikov rifles, grenades and rocket-propelled launchers. In the border sector next to Gadi's, Israeli soldiers escaped injury in two recent battles with Palestinian guerrillas. Army officials say the guerrillas' target was Kibbutz Manara, a collective farm visible from a hilltop lookout post near Avivim. Gadi, who at 29 has served 11 years in the army, says 23 civilian settlements lie in the 12-mile border strip under his command. Israel's elaborate border defenses against guerrilla attacks includes a security zone on the Lebanese side patrolled by Israeli soldiers and an Israeli-backed Christian militia in Lebanon. Near Avivim, the zone stretches from 1{ miles to seven miles north of the border. Mines are buried just inside Lebanon, and rusting rolls of concertina barbed wire are strung along both sides of the border. Touching the electronic border fence sets off alarms that army officers say can indicate to within about 100 yards where the trouble is. On the Israeli side, a road is patrolled by Israeli trucks and a dusty strip is swept frequently so that any footprints can be detected. Still, says Yossi, both Palestinian and Lebanese Shiite guerrillas keep trying to penetrate the barrier. ``It takes only five minutes to cut the fence,'' he says. Yossi says the infiltrators' trick is to try to sneak up as close as possible during the day, then cut through the fence at night. ``There are teen-agers sent into the border who don't stand a chance,'' he noted. The army says Palestinian guerrillas have carried leaflets saying they want to take civilian hostages to trade for colleagues jailed in Israel. Claims of responsibility often call for liberating Arab land lost with the creation of Israel in 1948. About 300 yards from the border, an Israeli collective farm called Kibbutz Malkiyya is protected by a soldier at the gate, a nearby army lookout post and rolls of concertina wire. Across the fence, Lebanese farmers can be seen tending fields neatly divided by stones and herding sheep. Arab villages sit on hilltops in the distance. ``It's green and nice until the shooting starts,'' says Gadi.
<irrelevant> A wealth of job opportunities is luring tens of thousands of South and Southeast Asians to Japan, forcing this once isolated nation to cope with the problem of migrant labor. More than half the foreigners working at companies investigated by the Labor Ministry between Oct. 16 and Nov. 16 were found to be working illegally, a recent report showed. Poor working conditions and the risk of deportation haven't discouraged the wave of workers from less wealthy Asian nations, nor have wages that are low by Japanese standards although, because of the strong yen, high in the foreign workers' own countries. The Japanese government, so far, has responded to the surge in foreign labor with plans to open its doors wider to foreign professionals. But it has reaffirmed a ban on manual laborers, provoking a national debate over the merits of internationalizing Japan's closed society. While government and private groups study the problem, the influx of illegal foreign workers continues to grow. In 1987, the Labor Ministry deported 11,307 foreigners for working illegally. In the first half of this year, Japanese police and immigration authorities arrested 7,196 foreigners for working illegally, up from 5,802 in the first half of 1987. But those numbers compare with police estimates that about 70,000 illegal foreign workers are in Japan. About half the illegal workers are men. Women, often recruited by crime syndicates, long have flocked to Japan to work, often legally, as ``entertainers.'' Human rights groups say the gangs that control Japan's underworld often force them into working as prostitutes. Since 1985, however, the number of illegal male workers in Japan has ballooned as unskilled workers from the Philippines, Bangladesh and Pakistan find ready employment, Labor Ministry figures show. In the ministry's investigation, of 202 foreigners working at 15,796 companies, 111 were working illegally, Kyodo News Service reported. It said 54 of the illegal workers were from Bangladesh, 36 from Pakistan, 13 from India, two each from Ghana, Taiwan and Thailand and one each from the Philippines and South Korea. Most of the clandestine laborers worked long hours with no vacations for low wages, having overstayed tourist visas after finding work at construction sites or in small metal working, chemical or food processing factories, the report said. Despite the government ban, firms that hire foreign manual workers are not penalized. A shortage of Japanese willing to do manual labor encourages them to employ foreigners, who often are reluctant to complain of poor treatment due to the risk of deportation, said Eiko Shinotsuka, a labor economist at Ochanomizu University in Tokyo. Both men and women working illegally are vulnerable to exploitation because of their illegal status, said Yaeko Takeoka, a lawyer familiar with the problems of clandestine workers. Japanese employees in the metal working industry receive average hourly wages of 2,150 yen, or about $17.20. Clandestine workers receive hourly wages of 500 to 700 yen, or $4 to $5.60, Labor Ministry figures show. But a few months of even low wages in Japanese yen amount to a fortune for migrant workers due to the lower cost of living in other Asian countries. Japan's average per capita income is about $17,000, compared with $550 in the Philippines, $113 in Bangladesh and $360 in Pakistan. By living together in small apartments to save on expenses, the clandestine workers manage to send about half their wages home to their families. Isolated in a society where they must constantly hide from police and immigration officials, few plan to stay in Japan indefinitely. ``They just come for short stays,'' Shinotsuka said. Economists say the influx of illegal laborers is unlikely to abate because Japan's 2.4 percent unemployment rate reflects a trend toward shortages of workers in certain industries. A recent report by the National Council for Development of an Economic Structure of the 21st Century predicted that Japan will face a shortage of 2.7 million workers by the year 2000 if current economic trends continue. The council recommended that Japan accept unskilled and semi-skilled foreign workers and suggested establishment of a system to prevent exploitation of ``guest workers.'' Numerous commentaries also have urged that Japan welcome its less affluent neighbors. ``In Japan, we don't accept political asylum and we turn our backs on immigrants. Maybe, in the short run, this is a wise policy in avoiding problems. However, can we say this policy is right over the long run?'' wrote commentator Yunosuke Ohkura in The Japan Times. Noting that Japanese believe they are ``unique and therefore superior,'' Mitsunobu Sugiyama of the University of Tokyo said in a recent article in the Japan Quarterly that ``constant contact with the people of other nations on this very personal level would do much to open Japanese eyes and help them better understand the rest of the world.'' A recent report by a Labor Ministry advisory panel, however, concluded that foreign manual laborers were undesirable. Their unfamiliarity with Japanese language and customs, it said, could cause social conflict.
<irrelevant> Mrs. Thatcher was given to bluntly reminding her fellow Europeans in NATO or the European Economic Community of their reliance on U.S. military and diplomatic power. This has revived complaints that the British cling to old trans-Atlantic ties and are unenthusiastic Europeans. Reagan's style provoked amusement, concern or jibing among British opposition parties and in newspapers. But not even in strict confidence would Thatcher aides utter a word of criticism of the president. Reagan and Thatcher have disagreed on economic issues like the U.S. deficit, and she had misgivings about the missiles deal. But they're obviously fond of each other, call each other Ron and Margaret, and share some basic instincts, like their faith in the free market and a strong defense, and their hatred of socialism. ``You have restored faith in the American dream,'' Mrs. Thatcher told Reagan last summer when he paid a farewell presidential visit to Britain. He said of the British leader who has been in office throughout his two terms: ``We're very good friends and it is a friendship I treasure very much.'' WASHINGTON _ The Reagan administration looked as if it was going to come up empty on its southern Africa policies until Chester Crocker, the assistant secretary of state, pulled out an 11th hour peace agreement on Angola. Until Crocker, a former Georgetown University professor, helped negotiate the peace agreement last month, he was best known as the architect of the administration's policy of ``constructive engagement.'' It called for the United States to use diplomatic pressure to force the white-ruled government of South Africa to change its policies of racial segregation, called apartheid.. ``Constructive engagement,'' no longer part of the State Department's official lexicon, was not a success. South Africa's policies remain virtually the same, with blacks denied political and social rights. In the United States, ``constructive engagement'' was the target of criticism and ridicule. And opponents of South Africa mounted a campaign which resulted in legislation in 1986 providing for economic sanctions against the white regime. They provided for a ban on new investments, a prohibition on the import of certain South African products and the suspension of South African commercial landing rights in the United States. Reagan's veto of the sanctions was overridden decisively. In Angola, where the Reagan administration and South Africa had supported rebels seeking to overthrow the Cuban-backed Marxist government, Crocker was more successful. After months of mediating delicate negotiations, South Africa, Cuba and Angola signed an agreement under which Angola pledged to send home 50,000 Cuban troops posted in Angola. At the same time, South Africa granted independence to South-West Africa, the continent's last colony. It will become the black-ruled nation of Namibia. In sum, it was a mixed record for the Reagan administration. _By Joan Mower WASHINGTON _ With U.S. encouragement, much of Latin America has undergone an unprecedented political transformation from dictatorship to democracy over the past decade but the region is nonetheless worse off economically now than when the generals were in charge. Reagan and Shultz have repeatedly hailed the democratic development in the hemisphere. Nonetheless, the same economic forces that swept the dictatorships from power during the 1980's are now threatening the emerging democracies. In some countries, the possibility of a military coup is not ruled out. As Reagan leaves office, the potential political and economic consequences of continued stagnation, partly the result of the region's huge foreign debt, could become one of the major hemispheric challenges for the new administration. President-elect Bush has called for a ``major review'' of existing policy on debt, the centerpiece of which is the so-called Baker plan, named for former Treasury Secretary and Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker III. The plan calls for economic reforms in the debtor countries and new public and private lending from the developed countries to meet their capital needs. But lending has been far below what had been expected when the plan was unveiled three years ago. Hemispheric countries over the past five years have shelled out more than $120 billion in debt repayments than they have received in new loans. Repayments on the region's $420 billion debt have meant that decades of hard-won gains for some countries have been wiped out. The region has been denied capital needed for investment and imports vital for production have been cut back sharply. Inflation and high unemployment are rampant. The list of countries which have made the shift to democracy or are in the process of doing so since 1979 is impressive: Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. But in virtually all of these countries, the popular base of the incumbent administrations has been eroding, reflecting the difficulty they have in dealing with the consequences of excessive borrowing in the past. Increasingly, Latin leaders see debt relief as perhaps the only way their countries can restore economic growth and to prevent yet another lost decade. _By George Gedda WASHINGTON _ Reagan's departure coincides with the start of a six-year term by a new Mexican president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, offer both countries a fresh opportunity for a more harmonious relationship. Reagan met frequently with former Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid and the two got along well but the same cannot be said for officials at the lower level. The two governments disagreed sharply over Central America, particularly Nicaragua, where Mexico was viewed by administration officials as perhaps the most stalwart non-communist backer of the leftist Sandinista government. Elliott Abrams, the outgoing assistant secretary of state for Latin America, concedes that the ``ideological tone'' of Mexico's foreign policy over the years left the administration ``very unhappy.'' U.S. officials angered Mexico by suggesting that official corruption was hampering that country's drug enforcement efforts. Mexico felt the Reagan administration failed to appreciate the sacrifices its security forces made to come to grips with the drug issue. Drugs remain a potent issue. Mexico is believed to provide 30 percent of the marijuana and 40 percent of the heroin reaching this country. Immigration is another divisive issue. The Reagan administration maintained that unwise Mexican economic policies forced millions of Mexicans to cross the border illegally. Mexico's view is that the immigration is the result of the U.S. demand for cheap labor, which it claims American policies fail to take into account. On the economic front, Mexico has maintained that paying the interest on its $107 billion foreign debt makes growth impossible. When Bush takes office, Mexico will be eagerly awaiting some sign that he will be amenable to a policy under which Mexico's debt servicing obligations might be matched to its payment capacity. Mexico has felt for years that its debt is the primary cause for a steady decline in Mexican living standards during the 1980s. _By George Gedda
<irrelevant> The longstanding flow of retirees from the Northeast and Midwest to the South's balmier climes is on the decline, says a University of Florida professor chronicling the trend. ``We've come to expect that there will be a continually large flow of older people moving from the Northeast and Midwest states to the South. That's become part of our conventional wisdom,'' says Stephen Golant, a University of Florida geography professor. But that's starting to change. Golant, whose study is based on U.S. Census data from 1955 to 1985, says that while the 15-state Southern region had a net migration gain of 280,000 elderly people between 1975-80, the number of immigrants declined to 208,000 between 1980-85. Golant, author of ``A Place to Grow Old: The Meaning of Environment in Old Age,'' says one reason for the migration shift is that the number of ``young-old'' _ people ages 65-74 _ is declining at a faster rate than their ``old-old'' counterparts. ``The growth rates for the 65-74 age group in the Northeast and Midwest, which began declining in the mid-1980s, will continue to decline substantially throughout the 1990s and into the first part of the 21st century,'' he said. ``This will reduce the pool of potential migrants who might relocate to the South.'' While the 75-plus population will grow at a faster rate than the young-old, these rates will still be lower than in the 1970s and early 1980s. ``More importantly, the age-75 group has consistently been less likely to move from state to state or from region to region,'' he said. One consequence of this graying of the population, Golant said, is that scarce resources may be taxed even further. ``Since the old-old will represent an increasingly higher proportion of the total elderly population in Florida and other Southern states, it's likely that there will be an increased need for long-term care facilities, home-care facilities, skilled nursing and the like.'' He said there may even be some reverse migration: from the South back to the Midwest and Northeast. ``To the extent that states like Florida are not increasing their health care and long-term care facilities, it's reasonable to predict that the more dependent and frail elderly population in the South will return to their home states, where they would be closer to their families and to service opportunities,'' he said.
<irrelevant> The nation's civilian unemployment rate fell to 5.3 percent in December, a 14-year-low, with the service sector leading the way in the creation of 279,000 new jobs, the government reported today. In its final unemployment report of the Reagan presidency, the Labor Department said the jobless rate dropped 0.1 percentage point from November, reaching 5.3 percent for the third time this year. The unemployment rate hit 5.3 percent in June and October. That was the lowest point since it was 5.1 percent in May 1974. The department said that 3,798,000 jobs were created in 1988, the most since 1984, when employers reporting adding 3.95 million people to their payrolls. Janet Norwood, commissioner of labor statistics, said 3 million of the new jobs last year were on the service side of the economy, including 700,000 in retail trade. The stock market had rallied on Thursday in anticipation of today's jobless report. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 12.86 points on Thursday to 2,190.54, surpassing its 1988 closing peak of 2,183.50 reached Oct. 21. It was the highest level for the Dow Jones industrial average since it stood at 2,246.74 on Oct. 16, 1987, the day before it lost 508 points on what became known as ``Black Monday.'' The December sales gains reported by the large retailers exceeded many analysts' expectations. They estimated industrywide sales rose in a range of 6 percent to 7.5 percent, an improvement over the 6 percent gain forecast before the start of the season. ``It turned out to be a good Christmas,'' Jeffrey Edelman, a retail industry analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., said. The outcome came as a surprise because retailers, mired in a sales slump since early 1987, expected their customers to continue shopping cautiously this season. Consumers, burdened by debt and paying more for services and necessities, have been forced to cut back on their retail outlays. Sears, Roebuck and Co., the nation's largest retailer, said its overall December sales rose 12.1 percent, while K mart Corp. said its overall sales were up 10.7 percent for the month. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said its overall sales rose 31 percent in December but J.C. Penney Co. Inc. said its overall sales fell 1.5 percent for the month. Booming year-end car and truck sales at General Motors Corp. and a jump in car sales at Ford Motor Co. contributed to overall increases in domestic sales of cars and light trucks in 1988. Manufacturers said sales of U.S.-made cars and light trucks averaged 44,477 a day in the Dec. 21-31 period, up 20.7 percent from the same period in 1987. For the year, domestic car and light-truck sales reached 11.7 million, averaging 38,060 a day in 1988, up 7.5 percent from 1987. Imported car and light truck sales in 1988 slumped to 3.7 million, an average of 12,087 a day, compared with 4.1 million, or 13,229 a day, in 1987. Combined domestic and foreign car and light truck sales totaled 15.4 million in 1988, up from 14.9 million in 1987 and approaching the 15.7 million of 1985, the second-best sales year ever. The record year was 1986, when 16.3 million vehicles were sold.
</top>
<top>
<num> 74
<title> Conflicting Policy
<relevant> European officials on Tuesday put finishing touches on a proposal to strike back at the United States in a trade dispute incited by a ban on American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, a spokesman for the European Economic Community, said that by Thursday he expected representatives of the 12-nation trading bloc would be given a proposal for imposing higher duties on certain U.S. products. The plan would be offered to counter measures the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. Approval of such a proposal would escalate a dispute that already threatens to become a serious trans-Atlantic commercial war, hurting a market in which two-way trade totaled an estimated $166 billion last year. The community's executive body, the European Commission, earlier vowed to slap higher duties on such U.S. imports as walnuts, honey, dried fruit and canned corn. Wegter said, ``The principle of retaliation on our part is already confirmed. It's already there. The only question is how we put that into practical terms.'' The final details and enforcement date of any such action would have to be approved by the member governments. American officials have raised the prospect of taking additional steps against any counter-measures imposed by the Europeans. Alfred Kingon, U.S. ambassador to the EEC, said last week, ``I think it's fair to say that you can anticipate further action on our side.'' The friction was touched off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc, also known as the Common Market, wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. ``Officially, there is no possibility of accepting meat coming from the United States that has been treated with hormones,'' Wegter told reporters. The ban is expected to block the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in making pates and sausages. The measure exempts imports used to make pet food. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The prohibition was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to a one-year delay. It has since refused U.S. appeals for another postponement. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States applied on Sunday trade sanctions worth about $100 million against European goods. The measures impose 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said last week that the EEC's ban on U.S. meat was an unfair trade practice and therefore justified the American retaliation. The additional tariffs are to remain in effect for the duration of the meat ban. But Wegter contended the U.S. retaliatory duties were not justified. ``We are entitled to have our own standards for the quality of our foodstuff,'' he said. ``If the Americans would like to breed with hormones, it's completely their affair,'' he said. ``The only thing we are asking is that to the extent they are exporting to us, they should certify that there is no breeding with hormones.'' EEC members could adopt the counter-measures against the United States later this week, Wegter said. But he added they also could refer the matter to key ministers scheduled to gather later in the month. Agriculture ministers from the 12 nations will meet Jan. 16 and foreign ministers on Jan. 23. Wegter said, ``We do not like the idea of having a trade war. ... The more things can be kept under control and kept in its own proportion the better it is.'' Wegter said that last fall, the EEC proposed settling the dispute by boosting imports of high-quality U.S. beef in return for American acceptance of the hormone ban. The offer, he said, was not accepted. EEC members are: France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<relevant> European trade representatives say they will seek permission to slap stiff duties on U.S. imports of dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against sanctions against European products. Any such approval would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the European Economic Community sparked by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, an EEC spokesman, said Thursday that representatives of the 12 nations making up the Common Market trading bloc will be given a proposal calling for the retaliatory measures. The plan, drawn up by the bloc's executive body, the European Commission, will be offered to counter sanctions the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. American officials have raised the possibility of taking more actions against the Europeans if the trading bloc strikes back. Wegter said the proposal recommends imposing 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and walnut imports from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, Wegter said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, averaged $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The commission's proposal does not set a date for application of the tariffs but recommends they be put in place as soon as possible. The trade fight was set off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect.
<relevant> She says that tobacco remains ``legal today solely by historical accident and political maneuvering.'' ``The accident is that millions of Americans became addicted to tobacco before the hazards of smoking were widely recognized and before products sold to the public were systematically reviewed for safety. The maneuvering involves skillful political manipulation by the tobacco industry to obtain exemption from every law and authority designed to protect the public from hazardous substances.'' She says that with falling domestic demand, the industry is aiming more at foreign markets, the Third World, especially Asia _ for instance Japan where 63 percent of the males smoke and China where 70 percent of the males smoke. Only 27 percent of American men smoke, she says. Furthermore, American cigarettes sold abroad are higher by far in tars and nicotine than domestic brands. Indeed, those 25 years ago when the surgeon general first attacked smoking, most smokers cut down and looked to the industry to provide them with safer cigarettes, which the industry did. Opponents, who had pressed for safer cigarettes, then pressed for none at all. The strength of the new attack on smoking has the fervor and the rationale of ``Mothers Against Drunk Drivers.'' The National Academy of Sciences in 1986 legitimized studies that held that non-smokers were endangered by environmental tobacco smoke which was called ETS. That same year, the surgeon general said that 20 years of accumulating evidence allowed the verdict: ``It is now clear that disease risk due to the inhalation of tobacco smoke is not limited to the individual who is smoking, but can extend to those who inhale tobacco smoke emitted into the air.'' While urging changes, he emphasized that those changes ``should not be designed to punish the smoker.'' ``Cigarette smoking is an addictive behavior, and the individual smoker must decide whether or not to continue that behavior; however, it is evident from the data presented in this volume that the choice to smoke cannot interfere with the non-smokers' right to breathe air free of tobacco smoke.'' While the studies have been criticized, they are largely statistical and have not been refuted. But since many smokers have a guilty conscience about their habit anyway, efforts to fight off the increasing repression make little headway. Not that there have not been efforts. Philip Morris publishes a glossy, entertaining magazine that has become a rallying point for smokers militant enough to fight back. Introduced in 1985 with a circulation of 150,000, the free magazine claims a circulation today of 12 million and a readership of 24 million. It reports local and national efforts to restrict the rights of smokers and provides a vent for some of the emotions of those who feel they are persecuted by the non-smoking movement. Publisher Guy Smith explains that its surveys produce a profile of the American smoker that should command attention in the marketplace. ``We want Detroit to know that smokers buy cars _ a lot of cars. Furthermore, we want Detroit to know that although some people complain about cars with ashtrays, there are still millions of car owners who smoke and use ashtrays.'' If the message is aimed at automakers, it is also aimed at politicians, restaurateurs and others who serve the general public. Consider the Philip Morris statistics: Smokers own 35 million cars, 5 million of them new last year; they have 38 million TV sets, 23 million VCRs, 5 million home computers, 30 million credit cards. Sixty-five percent of them are married and 40 percent have children. Almost 90 percent are registered voters and the vast majority said they voted in the last election. They are affluent, educated, active in community affairs and charitable organizations. Every day, 21 million of them go out to eat. That does not jibe with the statistics of the non-smoking movement, which sees smoking as largely a blue-collar problem, the affluent, better-educated having fled the smoking ranks. Everybody's statistics show the number of women who smoke is bucking an otherwise downward trend, especially young women. The non-smoking people say this is especially disheartening, because smoking by a prospective mother has been shown to be injurious to the fetus during pregnancy. Some 35 million Americans have quit, most of them obeying the strictures of the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the American Medical Association, and myriad other health groups allied against smoking. As a social experiment, the campaign for a smoke-free America has made remarkable strides. But it is not the first attempt to stomp out the lowly weed. They tried whipping in Russia and beheading in Turkey, and in this country health issues were a prime motive in the late 1800s. Now it's local bans on smoking as in New York City and Beverly Hills, curtailed advertising and special taxes (35 cents more a pack in California). Today's anti-smoking movement is hard-nosed and persistent, thanks to federal involvement. It is an emotional confrontation.
<relevant> European officials tentatively agreed Thursday to slap stiff duties on imports of American dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against recent U.S. sanctions against European products. Representatives of the 12-nation European Economic Community left it to their nations' foreign ministers to formally approve the measures and set the date for application of the higher tariffs. The foreign ministers will meet Jan. 23 in Brussels. ``The hammer is raised, but it won't actually fall until the ministers decide, (giving) time for the Americans to show a little understanding,'' said an official of a member nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Formal approval of the sanctions would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the Common Market trading bloc, which was touched off Sunday by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. The United States retaliated against the meat ban by imposing, also on Sunday, higher tariffs on a variety of European products. Alan Holmer, deputy U.S. trade representative, said in a satellite broadcast from Washington that ``it's presidential decision'' whether the United States would take further retaliatory measures against any European sanctions. ``There would be very strong support in the U.S. government for taking that kind of action if we were to reach that point,'' he told foreign journalists in a program sponsored by the U.S. government. ``But frankly we hope we won't have to reach that point and that the (EEC) will not take any kind of counter-retaliatory steps in the next several weeks,'' he said. The European officials also tentatively decided to allow meat shipped from the United States before Sunday to enter the Common Market until the end of the month. Officials said it was hoped that the United States would allow a similar grace period for sanctioned products from Europe. Under the tentative plan, the EEC would impose 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and unshelled walnuts imported from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, he said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, registered an annual average of $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The trans-Atlantic conflict was set off by the EEC enforcement of the ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. ``The (community) has failed to present any evidence that a proper application of the growth-producing hormones in question pose any threat to human or to animal health,'' Holmer said. ``We as yet have seen no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the (EEC) hormone ban and as a result we feel it necessary to protect U.S. trade interests,'' he said. The meat ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, pork hams and shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect. Holmer reiterated that the United States would like the Common Market to turn the dispute over to a special GATT panel for resolution but that it has so far refused to do so. The Canadian government also has not gone along with the meat ban. Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina have agreed to ship meat from untreated cattle to Europe. EEC members are France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<relevant> U.S. beef and veal treated with hormones will be accepted in the 12 countries of the European Economic Community until Jan. 31 if it was shipped before the end of 1988, a spokesman for U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said Friday. Cary C. Walker reported the truce in the so-called ``hormone war'' was approved Thursday, essentially for goods in transit. A European ban on imports of such meat went into effect Jan. 1, affecting U.S. sales worth about $100 million a year. There was an immediate U.S. reprisal in the form of an additional 100 percent import duty on a group of food imports, including Danish hams and sun-dried tomatoes from Italy, worth about the same amount. Under the agreement, the United States is also suspending the new duties on goods if they were shipped before Jan. 1 and arrive in this country by Jan. 31. Walker said unidentified governments in the community suggested the truce and the U.S. administration accepted on condition it apply throughout the 12 countries. Hormones are implanted in cows and calves to make them grow faster. Their use is forbidden in the ECC countries, but there have been reports of widespread violations. The 12 governments maintain that because of the ban, they have the right under international agreements to also ban imports. Other exporters of beef to Erope, including Canada and Australia, have agreed to ship only meat from animals not implanted. Alan Holmer, Yeutter's deputy, said Thursday the import ban is a restriction on trade disguised as a health measure, which has no scientific basis. Faced with the reprisal, the European Commission -- the joint executive of the 12 countries -- recommended a counter-reprisal. Ambassadors representing the 12 governments at community headquarters in Brussels pared down the commission's counter-reprisal list on Thursday to about $96 million worth of U.S. walnuts and dried prunes, peaches, apricots and papayas. A decision is due when ministers of foreign affairs from the 12 countries meet in Brussels Jan. 23 for a regular two-day session. That will be three days after the inauguration of President-elect Bush.
<irrelevant> Ringing in the new year are dozens of changes in federal laws and regulations, many of them aimed at quenching Americans' thirst for security and a few that will make life a little more expensive. Among the most significant of the Jan. 1 changes are a vast expansion of Medicare to cover catastrophic illnesses, faster pension fund vesting that will benefit millions, particularly women, and tax changes reducing the government's subsidizing of purchases on credit. Others that occurred just before the end of 1988 or are scheduled early in 1989 include a ban on lie detector tests by private employers, 60 days advance notice of plant closings and large layoffs and a new law prohibiting landlords from discriminating against the handicapped and families with children. A few of the changes are a little more esoteric but their impact eventually may be felt by the entire population. For example, Environmental Protection Agency regulations implementing the 46-nation ozone treaty took effect Jan. 1. The regulations don't require chemical companies to actually do anything until next July, but then they must cut their production of chloroflourocarbon or CFC compounds by an estiamted 20 percent back to 1986 levels. The treaty is aimed at halting the depletion of the ozone layer 15 to 25 miles up protecting the earth's surface from ultraviolet rays. CFC compounds also contribute to the ``greenhouse'' effect that is warming the planet. As a result of the regulations, consumers may notice fewer plastic food containers from fast-food outlets, thicker insulating panels and possibly even slightly harder seat cushions. The biggest of the immediate changes is the Jan 1. expansion of Medicare coverage for 32 million Medicare beneficiaries to include catastrophic health care costs. Prior to passage of the measure last summer by Congress _ the first major expansion of Medicare in its 22-year history _ the program paid full hospital bills for no more than 59 days a year. With the changes that took effect Sunday, the beneficiary still will have to pay the first-day deductible of $560. But that charge will be assessed no more than once a year no matter how many times the patient has to be hospitalized. The other 364 days are fully paid. That fundamental change in the hospital benefit was the cornerstone of the Medicare expansion set in motion by President Reagan in his 1986 State of the Union message. ``Let us remove a financial specter facing our older Ameicans _ the fear of an illness so expensive that it can result in having to make an intolerable choice between bankruptcy and death,'' he said then. Medicare enrollees will pay for the new benefits through a flat increase in the premium deducted from their monthly Social Security checks and an additional sliding scale premium for approximately 40 percent of the elderly who pay federal income tax. The flat increase will be $4 a month effective immediately, climbing to $10.20 monthly in 1993. The sliding scale premium is projected to rise from a maximum of 15 percent of regular income tax liability in 1989 to about 28 percent in 1993. Many of the Jan. 1 changes grow out of the 1986 Tax Reform Act. The biggest new benefit from that law is faster vesting in pension plans. The maximum waiting period for employees to become fully invested in a pension is being cut in half from 10 years to five years. However, employers can adopt an option that denies full vesting until seven years. To do so, they have to offer 20 percent vesting after three years and an additional 20 percent vesting annually until the seventh year, when it reaches 100 percent. The Employee Benefit Research Institute estimates that the pension changes will provide a retirement stake to 2 million more workers a year. ``We'll especially see more women being vested than in the past because they tend to be in the workforce or with the same employer for shorter periods,'' said Stephanie Poe, a spokeswoman for the institute. Another tax change is that only 20 percent of personal interest payments on everything from car and student loans to credit card charges will be deductible in 1989, compared with 40 percent last year. And while the government is now raising tax brackets, exemptions and standard deductions to keep cost-of-living raises from bumping people into higher brackets, it also is taking more Social Security taxes. The 7.51 percent Social Security tax took a maximum $3,380 out of employee paychecks in 1988. This year the maximum amount of income subject to the tax rises from $45,000 to $48,000, raising the maximum Social Security tax that can be collected from an individual employee to $3,605. The latest change came about just last Thursday, when the Federal Aviation Administration ordered airlines, effective Jan. 1, to either inspect by hand or X-ray all luggage checked aboard U.S. airline flights from western Europe and the Middle East. The new inspections, prompted by the bombing of a Pan Am jet over Scotland on Dec. 21, are expected to delay passenger check-ins by about an hour. Other changes taking effect slightly before or after New Year's Day include: _ The use of polygraph or lie detector tests by private employers to screen job applicants was outlawed, with some exceptions, effective last Tuesday. The American Civil Liberties Union estimates the law will effectively eliminate about 80 percent of the 2 million polygraph exams now administered annually. _ A 47-year-old ban on homework in five apparel trades is being removed on Jan. 8, unless unions which support the prohibitions win a court stay first. Affected are an estimated 50,000 to 75,000 workers in fields such as mittens and gloves, embroideries, buttons and buckles, handkerchiefs and some jewelry trades. They will be able to work legally at home for the first time if their employers obtain a certficate from the Labor Department after pledging to abide by minimum wage and other federal labor standards. _ A law requiring employers to provide 60 days advance notice of plant closings or layoffs affecting 50 or more people officially takes effect Feb. 4. However, there are different interpretations on whether companies are required to have provided 60 days notice beforehand if they close a plant on that date. The Labor Department advised in early December that, to avoid potential liability, they should. _ Regulations implementing a law passed by Congress last summer forbidding landlords from discriminating against the handicapped or families with children take effect March 12. Violators can be fined up to $10,000 for a first offense, $25,000 for a second violation in a five-year period and $50,000 for two or more violations within a seven-year period.
<irrelevant> A State Department official and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee disagreed today on whether the United States needs a new policy on Cuba. ``I don't think we need a new policy. I think the policy's working,'' said Elliott Abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs. ``It's a policy of putting pressure on (Cuban President Fidel) Castro to isolate him, to make his economic situation more difficult, to try to force him out of Angola, to try to force him to make human rights concessions. That's what's working,'' Abrams said on the ABC-TV program ``Good Morning America.'' But Rep. Robert Torricelli, D-N.J., interviewed on the same program, said ``to have an American policy that is basically based on the idea that we wish the revolution didn't happen, we wish that he'd go away, is really foolish going into a fourth decade.'' Torricelli said he thinks a policy is needed that would require some reforms from Castro in exchange for an improved relationship with the United States, a policy that ``puts a real price on a new relationship, a real price on his policies in Nicaragua and Angola and human rights at home. We may find that that gets some results.'' Castro, celebrating the 30th anniversary of his revolution, said in a televised speech Sunday night that it is ``socialism or death'' for Cuba, as he rejected market-oriented economic reforms. His remarks seemed aimed at the Soviet Union and other Communist countries that have been abandoning strict adherence to Marxist doctrine. Torricelli said that ``despite the rhetoric, I think there's some reason to believe there can be change.'' He said ``the difficulty here is that he doesn't understand what necessarily is required for better relations. And what (President-elect) Bush should be doing is spelling that out exactly. We want some change of policy in Nicaragua, we want him to continue to adhere to not aiding violent revolution in Latin America, we want the Angolan accords fulfilled, we want his promises kept on immigration, we want human rights changes in Cuba.'' Abrams said that if Castro wants a changed relationship with the United States, ``probably his first real step has got to be implementing'' the Angola agreement ``and taking the troops out.'' But, Abrams said, he thinks Castro is ``a first generation communist leader...who is unable to countenance a reduction in his personal power, real democracy, real change. It will take the next generation coming, I think, for there to be real change in Cuba.''
<irrelevant> Libya's official news agency said Monday that the United States is using allegations about a chemical weapons plant as a pretext to attack the radical North African Arab nation and kill its leader, Col. Moammar Gadhafi. In West Germany, Bonn government officials announced they were examining the records of Imhausen-Chemie of Lahr, a company said to be involved in the purported plant. But no criminal investigation has begun into the activities of the company, local prosecutor Werner Botz said. Imhausen-Chemie director Juergen Hippenstiel-Imhausen rejected the accusations in an interview with South German Radio in Stuttgart that was broadcast late Monday. He said he hoped the government probe would clear his firm of any wrongdoing. Libya's JANA agency, monitored in Rome, noted that a report Sunday in a United Arab Emirates newspaper quoted unidentified Arab sources as saying America planned to send an assassination team to kill Gadhafi during an attack on Libya. The daily Al-Khaleej said a U.S. task force trained for the attack is in Italy, Spain and aboard U.S. warships in the Mediterranean and said it could come this month. It said the strike would include air raids on a Libyan nuclear research center at Tajura and the purported chemical weapons plant at Rabtah. JANA said on Monday that a group it called the International League in Defense of the Mediterranean condemned the sailing of a new U.S. 13-ship carrier battle group for the Mediterranean. A U.S. Navy spokesman in Washington called the sailing a routine deployment of the 6th Fleet. A Navy spokesman in Italy said the new group comes at the time of the normal rotation of the ships in the Mediterranean. The State Department in Washington said Monday it had no officer on duty to answer questions. The report by Al-Khaleej report carried no dateline but appeared to originate in Tripoli, the Libyan capital. JANA said, ``The uncovering of this terrorist plan reveals and exposes clearly the real motives and dimensions of the hysterical campaign'' the U.S. government has mounted against Libya. It said the report proves U.S. allegations about a chemical arms plant ``were excuses and pretexts for an operation of premeditated individual murder.'' Washington says Libya is about to produce chemical weapons at the plant near Rabtah, about 50 miles southwest of Tripoli. Libya says the plant makes pharmaceuticals and stresses Libya's commitment to treaties banning chemical weapons. President Reagan has said the United States discussed with other North Atlantic Treaty Organization nations the possibility of military action against the plant. In Bonn, federal government spokesman Norbert Schaefer told a news conference authorities ``had no indication or evidence to verify the American suspicions'' that West German industry was involved. He said the allegations were brought to the government's attention during Chancellor Helmut Kohl's visit to Washington in November, but Bonn had no ``concrete information'' to work with. ``We must guarantee that German companies do not make profits from the construction of death factories in Third World countries,'' Helmut Ohnewald, a Christian Democratic state legislator from Baden-Wuerttemberg, told reporters. The Christian Democratic Union in Baden-Wuerttemberg, where Imhausen-Chemie is located, issued a statement demanding a full probe into the allegations. The company's Hippenstiel-Imhausen said Imhausen-Chemie had nothing to do with the Libyan factory, but had ``business contacts'' in Libya relating to provision of materials for a plant to produce plastic bags. Finance Ministry spokesman Karlheinz von den Driesch confirmed that a foreign trade investigation was launched Friday as a ``precautionary'' measure once Bonn learned that the name of the German firm implicated by the United States was to be made public. He said no evidence was uncovered to suggest Imhausen-Chemie was involved in wrongdoing. Von den Driesch said the investigation would try to find whether materials could have been shipped to Libya indirectly through a third country. Companies from West Germany, Japan and Italy are believed to have helped Libya build the plant or the adjacent industrial complex, according to news reports in the United States. Japan told the United States its citizens believed they were involved in building a fertilizer plant. At least two West German firms provided Libya with chemicals, technical assistance and special pumps and piping for the plant, U.S. News &amp; World Report magazine said in a report released Sunday. One company was identified as Imhausen-Chemie, the New York Times said Sunday, quoting U.S. government officials.
<irrelevant> President Fidel Castro, celebrating the 30th anniversary of his revolution, rejected market-oriented economic reforms and said that for Cuba, it is ``socialism or death.'' Castro's remarks, in a televised speech Sunday night, seemed aimed at the Soviet Union and other Communist countries that have been abandoning strict adherence to Marxist doctrine. ``Today we say with more force than ever, socialism or death, Marxism -Leninism or death,'' he said. Castro spoke to a large gathering from the balcony of the municipal building in the eastern city of Santiago, where he had proclaimed victory for his revolutionary struggle on Jan. 1, 1959. Federal regulators rescued a post-Depression record 217 savings institutions in 1988, leaving Congress and President-elect Bush to figure out the best way to pay the $38 billion bill. Theoretically, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which regulates the S&amp;L industry, expects enough income over the next 30 years _ $45 billion to $50 billion _ to cover the cost. But analysts and many members of Congress say regulators have run up such a huge bill that turning to the taxpayer is inevitable. ``We still don't know the magnitude of the S&amp;L crisis,'' Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said Sunday. ``We're not even certain what the regulators have been doing the past week, running up a tab of some $40 billion.'' Ringing in the new year are dozens of changes in federal laws and regulations, many of them aimed at quenching Americans' thirst for security and a few that will make life a little more expensive. Among the most significant of the Jan. 1 changes are a vast expansion of Medicare to cover catastrophic illnesses, faster pension fund vesting that will benefit millions, particularly women, and tax changes reducing the government's subsidizing of purchases on credit. Others that occurred just before the end of 1988 or are scheduled early in 1989 include a ban on lie detector tests by private employers, 60 days advance notice of plant closings and large layoffs and a new law prohibiting landlords from discriminating against the handicapped and families with children. FBI Director William Sessions says Yasser Arafat, chairman of the PLO, has ``a wealth of information'' that could help in the investigation of last month's crash of Pan American World Airways Flight 103 in Scotland. Sessions said he would welcome any information Arafat might have, but with or without the PLO's help the FBI chief predicted Sunday ``we're set up for the long haul'' and prepared for a lengthy manhunt. Appearing on ABC's ``This Week with David Brinkley'' and on NBC's ``Meet the Press,'' Sessions said he is ``very optimistic'' the culprit of the Dec. 21 bombing that killed 270 people will be found. ``We have a pattern and reputation for being able to solve'' such crimes, he said. A Palestinian held by Greece and wanted by the United States for the 1982 bombing of a Pan Am jetliner may hold clues to the group that blew up Flight 103 over Scotland last month. Whether he will ever tell his story in a U.S. court is an open question. Greece's Supreme Court has twice delayed the extradition of Mohammed Rashid, 39, who is thought by Western intelligence experts to specialize in the planting of bombs aboard jetliners and to be a senior operative in the May 15 Palestinian terrorist group. The Rashid case has taken on extra significance since the Dec. 21 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which killed all 259 people aboard the Boeing 747 and about a dozen on the ground. A woman celebrating her birthday with her husband broke into hysteria after returning home to find that a fire had destroyed their wooden house, killing 10 people, including their four children. Firefighters had to restrain Nancy Watson when she repeatedly tried to enter the burned out two-story house, said Valerie Pound, a witness. ``There was no house to get back into. It was just gone,'' Pound said. ``She kept screaming the names of her four kids in a pattern, one right after another.'' Three walls and the roof already had collapsed when firefighters arrived early Sunday, said Fire Chief Leo Renn. Police blamed overcrowding for the capsizing of a boat packed with revelers planning to watch a New Year's fireworks display off Copacabana Beach. At least 51 died and others were missing today. Passengers said the double-decked cruise boat had ignored a coast guard order to return to port, and officials said the flat-bottomed craft _ built to hold 100 people _ was overcrowded and unfit for Saturday night's choppy seas. It capsized in 65 feet of water about a mile from shore, and strong currents kept rescue workers from searching the site for bodies early today. Survivors said few life jackets were accessible when the 100-foot Bateau Mouche went down, and one, Plinio Donadio, said, ``I watched my wife die because I couldn't untie one of the life preservers to save her.''
<irrelevant> He says he is a hard-working chef chasing the American dream. But the U.S. government contends Carmine Esposito is the ``Al Capone of Italy,'' a ruthless mob boss linked to a dozen killings. Esposito, 31, facing a Jan. 13 deportation hearing, is fighting a return to Italy that he says would mean certain death at the hands of mobsters or corrupt law enforcement officials. ``Would the `Al Capone of Italy' come to Chicago and work like a dog? Would he leave behind his protection and his money?'' he demanded in a recent interview from the federal Metropolitan Correctional Center, where he has been held in solitary confinement for 21 months. ``Would the `Al Capone of Italy get up at 4 a.m. each day to go buy meat, to make sausage alone, to deliver it at night ... not have enough time in a day to even wash yourself?'' But the U.S. government has concluded that Esposito is the man named in an extradition request from Italian authorities. The document charges that Esposito ordered or committed 12 killings in Italy from April 1982 through June 1983 while holding a top post in the Nuova Camorra Organizzata, a criminal clan similar to the Mafia that operates in and around Naples, near Esposito's hometown of Acerra, Italy. ``Esposito is big fish,'' said Italian Judge Vicenzo Scolastico, who was involved in the investigation of the organization. ``As a member of the (Camorra's policy-making) Council of Nine, Esposito had people strangled. Some had to dig their own graves before they were shot. Bodies were mutilated or disappeared. ``He is one of the last great Nuova Camorra figures still at large, and if he ever decided to talk, he could cast light on many unsolved crimes,'' Scolastico added in an interview with The Chicago Tribune. Esposito was arrested in March 1987 as he and several employees finished lunch at Bravissimo, the modestly successful restaurant he and his wife opened in May 1986. He also worked as a chef there, and earlier had worked as an auto body repairman, car salesman and sausage-maker. He entered the United States in 1984, had no trouble with the law and appeared to have been what he claimed _ a contented, hard-working immigrant whose sweat earned him a growing business and a home in the suburbs. He earned enough money to send his children to parochial schools. But all that changed with Esposito's arrest. A lengthy court fight drained his resources and forced his family onto public-aid rolls. He also said his prison confinement has worsened a heart condition. ``The authorities make him out to be a one-man crime wave,'' said Esposito's attorney, Philip Parenti, ``and for all that, there is not one eyewitness, one photograph, one fingerprint. ``There is not one piece of corroborating evidence, except for the pentiti.'' ``Pentiti,'' which literally means ``penitent'' but has taken on the more pedestrian definition ``informant.'' Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas Scorza argued that even though some informants' criminal histories might raise questions, those matters are best addressed in Italian courts. The U.S. government does not have to prove Esposito's innocence or guilt, Scorza said. ``Besides,'' he said, ``the witnesses almost always are (informants) in gangster cases. And in this instance, the people pointing at him are saying, `I did it with him.' ``They're not doing it to save their necks. They're confessing to the crimes as well.'' Esposito admits to having known Camorra members while working at his father's auto body shop in Acerra, to fixing their getaway cars and on at least one occasion, to sawing off the barrels of shotguns. His refusal to join the Camorra, he said, resulted in harassment by Italian police, and later in his decision to pack up his family and run. He left Acerra and spent the next three years in several Italian cities _ Caserta, then Rome and Milan, before heading for the United States. ``In Italy, the Camorra have so much influence with the government and with police, there is no way to be safe,'' he said. ``Always I think, `If only I am successful to reach the United States, it will be different. ``Now,'' he concluded, ``I am not so sure.''
</top>
<top>
<num> 75
<title> Automation
<relevant> In addition, my budget proposes legislation to establish a government corporation for the uranium enrichment enterprise, as the first step towards eventual privatization. The federal government should also depend more on the private sector to provide ancillary and support services for activities that remain in federal hands. Therefore, I propose a number of pilot projects and studies in areas such as the private delivery of advertising materials and urgent mail, and the Department of Justice's prison hospitals. In 1981, I made a promise to the American people ``to limit government to its proper role and make it the servant, not the master, of the people.'' My ``Management Improvement Program: Reform '88'' has helped make government more efficient and more responsive. We reduced waste and fraud in federal programs by combining the efforts of the inspectors general into the President's Council on Integrity and Efficiency, resulting in over $110 billion saved or put to better use _ and their efforts are continuing. I saw that the federal government did not have effective cash management practices for dealing with what is now a $2 trillion annual cash flow, nor did it have a governmentwide credit management program for what is now a $1 trillion portfolio. This resulted in the waste of billions of dollars each year. We built the necessary governmentwide controls in both areas and stopped the drain. Moreover, we began the establishment of the first governmentwide financial accounting system, consolidating and making uniform over 400 previously incompatible individual agency systems. This was essential for any well-managed government, and is presently being implemented. The federal government has a major effect on our daily lives through the collection of taxes and fees, the direct provisions of services, the payment of financial assistance through various entitlement programs, and the regulation of commercial enterprises. Through modernization, improved administration, and automated services the government has made substantial reductions in the time it takes to provide services to the public. As the 21st century approaches, the federal government must adapt its role in our society to changing conditions and changing technology. At the turn of the century, the U.S. population will exceed 268 million, with a larger proportion of elderly citizens. Changes in technology and communication will increasingly link the world's economies, trade, capital flows, and travel as never before.
<relevant> Hiring permanent part-time workers and contracting out some services may have to be considered as ways to save money in postal operations, Postmaster General Anthony Frank told a Senate subcommittee Friday. Rising health care costs and other expenses are eating up savings realized through automation, and the massive postal agency needs to look throughout its operations to find ways to cut costs, Frank told the subcommittee on federal services, post office and civil service. ``So far this year, while we still anticipate that revenues will exceed expenses by a small margin, we have not done as well as we had planned,'' Frank reported. The Postal Service had planned for a surplus this year based on the 25-cent postage rate that took effect just a year ago. Frank has said previously that he expected the agency to drop into the red in 1990 and face another rate increase in 1991, maintaining the recent cycle of increasing postage costs every three years. When postal managers applied for the current rates they were overly optimistic in their projections in an effort to achieve the ``round figure'' of a quarter, Frank told the subcommittee. In the real world, costs have exceeded those expectations, resulting in a smaller surplus than had been hoped for. Also affecting the postal budget was legislation last year requiring the agency to contribute funds toward reducing the federal debt. Frank told the subcommittee that in order to maintain universal postal service, and to save money without affecting the current postal employees, his managers are having to re-evaluate all operations of the agency. ``Maybe we need to look at permanent part-time people,'' he commented, noting that such workers are common in other countries. The Netherlands, for example, hires many housewives to deliver mail four hours per day, Frank said. Another possibility is contracting out some work. The Postal Service currently uses contractors to handle about 15 percent of its rural routes, and may need to expand that share and consider hiring contractors for other tasks, Frank said. Use of bar codes on all letters by 1995 and other improvements in automation will help speed the mail and save money, but those are long-term benefits and not things that will affect the agency overnight, he said. In addition, automation requires a considerable investment, Frank said. For example, several years ago managers bought machines designed to read the nine-digit ZIP codes. Those codes were delayed by Congress and never become popular with the public, so the machines are now being converted to perform other tasks.
<relevant> American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co. says it may cut up to 25,000 jobs this year and plans to eliminate 8,500 more in 1990, a result of labor-saving technology and tough competition. Analysts on Monday praised AT&amp;T's cost-slashing, which they said should help the company improve profitability. ``It's really demonstrating that a very, very significant cultural change is going on within AT&amp;T. Bob Allen (the chairman) is recognizing that the ultimate boss is the shareholder,'' said Charles Nichols, a Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. analyst. The cuts were less popular with AT&amp;T's largest union, the Communications Workers of America, which said customer service was bound to suffer. It said AT&amp;T was being short-sighted by cutting skilled employees at a time when labor shortages are developing. ``We can only conclude that AT&amp;T cares more about cutting costs in the short run than about building revenue for the long run,'' said Gaye Williams Mack, a union spokeswoman. AT&amp;T stock rose 75 cents to $44.37{ a share on the New York Stock Exchange. AT&amp;T has been eliminating jobs steadily since the Bell System breakup of Jan. 1, 1984, when the local phone companies were split off into seven regional companies known as the Baby Bells. Employment fell from 373,000 then to 297,000 by the end of October 1989. About half the cuts have come through layoffs and half through retirements and other voluntary separations, spokesman Burke Stinson said. Stinson said he estimates the total reduction in 1989 will end up at about 22,000 to 23,000 jobs and said the drop could range as high as 25,000 depending on the number of voluntary separations. Modernization is one big reason for the cuts. Automated switching technology has allowed AT&amp;T to cut its ranks of operators drastically. Also, many employees who operated, installed and serviced phone equipment are being phased out as the company changes to high-tech digital equipment. Another reason for cuts is that AT&amp;T was overstaffed before the breakup. It could afford extra layers of employees as long as it was a monopoly, but rising competition since the breakup has forced it to pare down. AT&amp;T's aggressiveness in cutting costs is matched by a new determination to fight back in the long-distance business against MCI Communications Corp. and US Sprint Communications Co., its closest rivals. Nichols said he expects those companies to continue eating into AT&amp;T's share of the market, but far more slowly than in the past few years. The company also is battling rivals in sales of network switching equipment, office phone systems and computers. A sign of AT&amp;T's tough-guy approach was its recent victory against Asian makers of small-business phone systems. The International Trade Commission ruled on a company complaint that phone systems from Japan and Taiwan were being ``dumped'' in the United States at unfairly low prices and ordered special tariffs on them. AT&amp;T last week told analysts it planned to cut 6,000 jobs next year in the Network Services division, which runs the long-distance network. It also plans to cut 700 in Business Communications Systems, 1,400 in Material Management and Services, and 400 in General Business Systems. The largest portion of the 1989 cuts came from AT&amp;T's first drive to cut middle management through sweetened pension offerings for those who accepted early retirement. About 12,000 to 13,000 managers have chosen early retirement under that program. Two thousand other managers left before that incentive program began. The company also cut 5,000 operators and says it expects to cut other jobs through normal attrition, possibly as many as 6,000.
<irrelevant> Scientists looking for ways to provide food, oxygen and sewage treatment for space travelers are growing wheat in a computer-controlled capsule that mimics Earth's ecosystem. The Kennedy Space Center scientists cultivated their garden by hand for about three years in the 12-by-23-foot ``biomass production chamber,'' and then turned it over in mid-November to a computer. The computer makes sure that the wheat, growing hydroponically, gets enough light, air, water and fertilizer. ``If you're truly, permanently going to space, you've got to have a system like this,'' says plant physiologist William Knott, head of the project. Without such a system, Knott says, astronauts would need regular shipments of fresh air, potable water and prepared food _ prohibitively expensive for any planned space habitats and impossible for voyaging spaceships. ``Sooner or later, we're going to get tired of sending TV dinners out and bringing port-a-potties back,'' said agricultural engineer John Sager. One problem is trying to cram enough of the important parts of the biosphere into a container small enough to fit in a spaceship, said Ralph Prince, another agricultural engineer. ``In the physical world, if you model a dam on the Tennessee River, you build everything smaller. When we model the biological process ... we can't build people smaller.'' A life support system in flight might carry several staple crops such as wheat, rice, beans, soy, potatoes, peanuts and lettuce, and might carry only 25 gallons of water. Astronauts would have to recycle water to stretch the supply. Another obstacle is converting sewage into a fertilizer that won't kill the plants, which thrive on a carefully blended chemical solution. A prototype life support system could be ready for a ground test by 1995, but it could be 2020 before a system would be available for flight testing, say National Aeronautics and Space Administration scientists. Women may be only a button away from controlling the severity of their labor pains during childbirth, according to a North Carolina researcher who studied a self-administered pain-killing technique. The technique, patient-controlled epidural analgesia, lets a woman control the amount of pain medication she gets. Patients who used it tended to use less than those who got medication from a doctor or nurse, said Steven Z. Lysak, who directed a study of 74 women at Wake Forest University Medical Center. In addition to potentially limiting fetal exposure to anesthesia, the self-administered technique provides a psychological advantage by increasing patient participation in the labor process, researchers said. ``Using this technique, women safely and effectively treated their own pain throughout the course of labor,'' said Lysak, who presented his findings last year at the annual meeting of the American Society of Anesthesiologists. Patients who use the technique push a button to administer a measured dose of a pain-relieving medication. A thin tube inserted near the patient's spinal cord in the lower back carries medication to nerves and receptors. The device has a timer to prevent a patient from overdosing herself. A biomedical engineer and an anesthesiologist are working on a high-tech version of the stethoscope, with three sound pickups instead of the single amplifier doctors use to chill their patients. The multichannel electronic stethoscope designed by Daniel Benson and Jeffrey Joseph improves the doctor's ability to hear and monitor the supply of oxygen to a patient's lungs during surgery, and lets the anesthesiologist hear the heart and changes in breathing sounds from each lung. The sound is amplified, filtered, mixed and transmitted to a headset worn by the anesthesiologist, who can isolate each channel or hear all three. It can help determine if an oxygen tube has shifted or is inserted incorrectly, or if a lung has collapsed, said Joseph, an anesthesiologist at Chestnut Hill Hospital. ``By using the multichannel stethoscope and comparing the sounds, you can recognize problems that much faster. ``You can localize even a slight wheeze by turning up the volume and come up with a good diagnosis.'' Joseph and Benson, of Thomas Jefferson University, have applied for a patent for their version of the device first invented in 1819 by Renee Laennec, a French physician. The Patent Office says 324 patents for stethoscopes have been issued in the United States, including 102 electronic versions and 173 with special acoustic properties.
<irrelevant> Honeywell Bull Inc. announced Thursday it is cutting 1,600 jobs in the United States, a reduction analysts said reflects weakening demand for the company's large mainframe computers. The cuts will reduce the company's workforce about 6 percent and will include manufacturing and administration jobs at several plants in Massachusetts and in Phoenix, Ariz., Honeywell Bull said. The company said it hopes to achieve the cuts through early retirements and attrition in addition to layoffs. It said 900 employees are eligible for early retirement at the Billerica-based company. Honeywell Bull will have a worldwide workforce of 18,100 after the cuts. Analysts said the cuts reflect a decline in the mainframe computer market, geared toward sophisticated scientific applications used principally in defense and aerospace industries. ``It's a recognition of what's going on,'' said Jeremy Tennenbaum, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. in New York. ``When all is said and done the market for scientific computers outside the Defense Department and big aerospace companies has yet to take off.'' ``The weakness of federal demand for large systems means it's going to be tough sledding for everyone in the industry, especially if you're a new entrant,'' he said. Honeywell Bull said the reductions are not linked to an ongoing ownership restructuring of the company, which was formed in March 1987 as a joint venture of France's Groupe Bull, Honeywell Inc. of Minneapolis and NEC Corp. of Japan. Groupe Bull last week acquired 22.6 percent of the company from Honeywell, giving it a 65.1 percent ownership. Honeywell owns 19.9 percent and NEC 15 percent. Honeywell Bull President Roland Pampel said the layoffs, scheduled to be completed by mid-March, were taken to try to improve the company's competitive position by cutting costs and improving productivity. Pampel, who took over Honeywell Bull last July, said the change marks a continuing consolidation. ``We're streamlining it, reacting to things we must do from a productivity point of view,'' he said in an interview. Pampel denied that the change indicated a slump in the mainframe market, and said a new line of computers introduced in November was ``very well received by customers.'' Honeywell Bull, which moved to Billerica last September, has offices in the United States, Italy, the Great Britain, Canada, Australia, Mexico and Asia. It reported 1987 profits of $17.4 million, less than 1 percent of revenues of $2.06 billion. Honeywell allied with Groupe Bull and NEC to take advantage of the similar computer designs of all three companies. In the 1960s, when Japan and Europe were minor forces in the computer industry, Honeywell had licensed designs to the two companies. The three parent companies remain independent apart from Honeywell Bull, which is completing a restructuring expected to include a name change.
<irrelevant> Here is the text of President Reagan's radio address Saturday: My fellow Americans, on Monday I submit to Congress my final budget. It's a responsible plan which cuts the deficit without touching Social Security, weakening defense, or reducing benefits to the needy. And the best news is that this budget proves it can be done without raising your taxes. Our growing economy will, in the next fiscal year, produce $84 billion in new revenues with no increase in tax rates. Since the whole economic pie is expanding, the federal government's slice grows along with the private sector. Raising taxes would be the surest way to kill the economic goose that lays the golden eggs. So I leave as I came, dead-set against any new taxes. And even if there were a tax increase, history shows that Congress would almost certainly spend the additional money, it couldn't be used to reduce the deficit. It would just mean that you had to pay for an even bigger government. And now, with an estimated $84 billion new revenues coming in, we can both reduce the deficit and increase federal spending. By combining new revenues with previously scheduled reductions and savings in other areas, priority programs will grow by nearly $50 billion. There are more funds for air safety, fighting crime, housing the poor, and the war on drugs. Funds for AIDS research and prevention is increased by 24 percent. And money to clean up toxic waste goes up by a fifth. We also increase funds for the science and space program, and for basic biomedical research. And student aid funds are increased again, bringing it to a level 83 percent higher than where it stood in 1980. Real defense spending is increased by 2 percent. This is a small increase, but an important one _ the price of peace and security for America. Through strength we achieved greater realism in the U.S.-Soviet relationship and breakthroughs in arms reduction. Our defense budget will enable us to continue on this path. Let's remember that despite the internal reforms in the Soviet Union, they are modernizing their weapons at a rapid pace, spending a far larger share of Gross National Product on weapons than the United States does. Spending on Medicare and Medicaid will increase by $10 billion in the next fiscal year. But, if the past is any guide, the headlines will claim we've actually cut funding. Well, ``t'ain't so.'' In Washington, when spending goes up less than had been projected, they call that a ``cut,'' even though more of your tax dollars are being spent than ever before. With Medicare, we've simply limited the increase in payments to providers of services. There is no effect on the people who receive the benefits. So, my fiscal year 1990 budget provides for the needy, does not raise taxes; and, by controlling the growth in spending, reduces the deficit next year by nearly $70 billion. This not only meets the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit reduction target, it reduces the deficit even further and puts us on track to a balanced budget and a modest surplus by fiscal year 1993. This budget is a realistic program which protects the working families of America, provides adequate support for those who depend on government, and helps assure America's prosperity in the years to come. I've often spoken of the rising income Americans have enjoyed in recent years, but one group lags behind. According to a new report by the Bipartisan Commission on Federal Salaries, real pay for top level government jobs has fallen by 35 percent since 1969 due to inflation, while private sector pay has outpaced inflation. So, my budget includes higher pay for vital positions ranging from judges to scientists to elected officials. This increase is still less than what was lost to inflation. Even after this raise, the real income of a Circuit Court judge will be 19 percent less than in 1969. The cost of these increases will be absorbed in the budget without slowing progress in the deficit, and we'll be getting something important in return. When salaries are too low, it's hard to attract and keep America's best in government. Federal judges are leaving the bench in record numbers, partly because they're paid less than junior members of law firms. The National Institutes of Health that fight cancer and other grave diseases have vacancies for senior researchers that have been empty for 10 years, due to poor pay. Also troubling is that some officials, particularly in Congress, now supplement their income with special interest honoraria payments. My support for the pay increase rests on my firm belief that such payments undermine the integrity of our government and should be abolished. We must be willing to pay for excellence in government, or risk a government run only by people of wealth, or by those beholden to special interests. Until next week, thanks for listening, and God bless you.
<irrelevant> The Reagan administration today proposed eliminating two dozen federal education programs while slightly increasing overall education outlays from $20.6 billion this year to $21.2 billion in fiscal 1990. Some $541 million saved by the cuts, plus another $212 million from cost savings officials hope to achieve from the guaranteed student loan program, would go to expand existing programs for disadvantaged students from kindergarten to graduate school. The proposed budget does not incorporate any of the education spending ideas set forth during President-elect Bush's campaign. They included a $500 million merit schools program for schools serving disadvantaged children and a $50 million infusion for a magnet schools program designed to encourage parental choice. But Bush, who pledged during the campaign to be ``the education president,'' is expected to rework the budget in the weeks following his Jan. 20 inauguration. The education community asserted last week that he needs to request an extra $2.5 billion for fiscal 1990 in order to begin to fulfill his pledge. Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos said last month that ``I did the best I could'' to secure the best possible budget for his department. The document does not contain specific new initiatives reflecting his own priorities _ cutting illiteracy and the dropout rate _ but that could come later. Cavazos has said that after Bush takes over, ``We will be getting into some rather specific kinds of programs.'' Among the programs on the chopping block under the Reagan plan are the Women's Educational Equity Act research program, which officials complain has outlived its purpose, and a two-year dropout prevention demonstration project due to expire. Also suggested for extinction are programs the administration considers duplicative, and programs officials say should be financed by the private sector. The latter include impact aid to school districts serving areas with tax-exempt federal installations; Star Schools, which would put satellite technology in schools; and a number of scholarship and fellowship programs. The largest dollar increase under the Reagan plan _ and one of the only boosts higher than the anticipated 3.4 percent inflation rate _ would go to Pell grants, the chief federal assistance program for low-income post-secondary students. Current budget authority for the program is nearly $4.5 billion. That would rise by $256 million under the Reagan plan _ a 5.7 percent hike. The maximum grant amount of $2,300 would stay the same and the number of students receiving aid would rise 46,000 to 3.1 million. Reagan would increase outlays for Chapter 1, the major federal program for low-achieving children in poor neighborhoods, from the current $4.2 billion to $4.3 billion in fiscal 1990. Most of the extra money would be for grants funneled to areas with the highest concentrations of needy students. The Reagan budget would hike spending authority for vocational and bilingual education programs by about 3.4 percent. Spending authority for vocational education would rise to $949 million while bilingual would increase to $157 million. Outlays are anticipated to be slightly less. The administration is hoping to save $212 million on the guaranteed student loan program by reducing special allowance payments used as an incentive to lenders to participate, and by reducing guaranteed reinsurance to lenders and state guarantor agencies from 100 percent to 90 percent on the dollar. Congress would have to approve both moves. The entitlement program currently costs the government about $3.2 billion in interest and default payments. Officials expect loan volume to rise from $11.5 billion this year to $12.5 billion in fiscal 1990, adding another 278,000 students to the 4 million-plus already participating in the program.
<irrelevant> The Reagan administration proposes modest spending increases in education, health and poverty programs but wants to save money by cutting school lunch subsidies and home heating assistance along with some student loans and grants. In its proposed 1990 budget unveiled Monday, the administration outlined a 5.7 percent increase for the Department of Health and Human Services and a 3 percent boost in outlays for education. Health and Human Services, the largest federal department, would receive $424.4 billion in 1990. The budget called for a 13 percent increase in spending for AIDS research and prevention, raising that to $1.4 billion. However, the budget proposed saving some $935 million by cutting off school lunch subsidies that benefit middle and upper class students. Currently all students, regardless of family income, are entitled to school lunches subsidized by the government. But under the administration plan, students whose family income is 185 percent higher than the poverty line _ about $21,553 for a family of four last year _ will be on their own. Overall, the government will spend an estimated $5 billion on school and day care center lunch programs this year. Cutting off the subsidy for middle and upper income families would cost them about 28 cents per lunch, the administration estimated. A group pushing for nutrition programs for the poor attacked the proposal as ``inexcusable.'' ``No matter how they defend it, these proposals will mean the denial of millions of meals to needy children in schools and day care centers,'' said Robert J. Fersh of the Food Research Action Center. The administration also proposed to save $283 million by reducing money to help the poor pay their heating and light bills to a $1.1 billion spending authority. ``Now that the energy crisis has ended, low-income households are spending smaller and smaller portions of their income on heat,'' the budget document said. Meanwhile, education lobbying groups said they hoped George Bush, who ran on the pledge of being the ``education president,'' would correct what they believe are inadequacies in the final Reagan budget. ``We would hope that when the Bush administration submits its own budget, we will see a substantial increase,'' said Susan Frost, executive director of a coalition of education groups. ``If we were to see ... basically no changes in the Bush administration, we'd be very disappointed.'' Under the proposed budget, education outlays would rise slightly from an estimated $20.6 billion to $21.2 billion next year. Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos said the administration hoped to save some $750 million by cutting out two dozen programs, including some student loans and grants. However, many of the programs up for elimination have survived past administration attempts to do away with them.
</top>
<top>
<num> 76
<title> U.S. Constitution - Original Intent
<relevant> An adult's right to refuse medical treatment in the face of death was upheld Thursday by the Florida Supreme Court in a case involving a Jehovah's Witness who was forced to accept blood transfusions. Privacy rights and religious freedom supersede the medical profession's interest in saving lives, the justices ruled 6-1. The court, noting the woman did not want to die, said its ruling was not condoning suicide. The decision was a victory for Norma Wons, who sought care for uterine bleeding in April 1986. Doctors said she was lapsing in and out of consciousness and death was imminent at the time. While still conscious, she fought against receiving transfusions because Jehovah's Witnesses believe it defies a biblical passage in Leviticus, ``Whatsoever man ... eats any manner of blood, I will cut him off from among his people.'' A court in Miami ordered doctors at the county-run Jackson Memorial Hospital to perform transfusions. Mrs. Wons regained consciousness and continued her court battle. Her attorney, John D. Kelner, said the bleeding is likely to recur. ``That is one of the things that made the issue not moot with the court,'' said Kelner. ``She has expressed her preference in writing that should she suffer from it again, she be allowed to ... refuse transfusions.'' Hospital officials, represented by the hospital's Public Health Trust of Dade County, said letting Mrs. Wons die would leave her two children without proper nurturing. Mrs. Wons, 41, argued that her husband supported her decision and the children would be cared by him, his mother and brothers. The high court said Mrs. Wons' wasn't necessarily ignoring the best interest of her children and shouldn't be viewed as returning to a normal life after having been forced to commit a sin against religious laws. Her death may have been necessary to ensure her spiritual life, Chief Justice Raymond Ehrlich wrote in a separate opinion agreeing with the majority. ``As a parent, ... she also must consider the example she sets for her children, how to teach them to follow what she believes is God's law if she herself does not. The choice for her cannot be an easy one, but it is hers to make,'' Ehrlich wrote. Justice Ben Overton, in the sole dissent, said Mrs. Wons' death would have been unnecessary and guessed the court would have surprised one of the framers of the U.S. Constitution. ``To justify, as a right of the free exercise of religion, a parent's right to abandon a minor child through a death which is totally unecessary is, in my view, neither a reasonable nor a logical interpretation of the First Amendment,'' wrote Overton. ``James Madison would not believe that his `free exercise' clause could ever be interpreted in this manner.''
<relevant> A proposed constitutional amendment banning abortions remains a long-range goal of the anti-abortion movement but it is taking a back seat to the battle in the Supreme Court. Proposals for such an amendment were the main rallying cry of the anti-abortion movement for years and have been endorsed by both President Bush and former President Reagan. But Bush now says he will probably wait for the Supreme Court's decision before undertaking any anti-abortion initiatives, and Reagan is turning to other issues. An anti-abortion amendment was rejected by the Senate nearly six years ago. The proposal has been reintroduced in the House and Senate, but no action is scheduled. The Supreme Court, however, will hear arguments April 26 in a case in which the state of Missouri, the Bush administration and others seek to limit or reverse the court's 16-year-old ruling that women have a constitutional right to abortion. ``Especially in recent years, the focus has been much more on the court itself and the likelihood of a reversal rather than on the much more onerous method of amending the Constitution,'' Douglas Johnson, legislative director of National Right to Life, said in an interview. The only time an anti-abortion amendment has ever been voted upon in either house of Congress was on June 28, 1983, when it failed on a 50-49 vote in the Senate, well short of the required two-thirds majority. In the House, no such measure has ever emerged from the Judiciary Committee, which anti-abortion leaders say is considerably more liberal on the abortion rights issue than the House as a whole. If it received the necessary majority in both houses, the amendment would still require ratification by three-fourths of the states before it became part of the Constitution. The amendment that failed in 1983, sponsored by Sen. Orrin G. Hatch, R-Utah, would have provided simply, ``A right to abortion is not secured by this Constitution.'' That would have left it up to state legislatures to decide whether to make abortions legal. The vote came just two weeks after the Supreme Court had struck down a number of state and local limits on abortion in line with the reasoning of its 1973 decision, known as Roe v. Wade. Since then, the court's conservative wing has been strengthened by the addition of Justices Antonin Scalia and Anthony Kennedy, encouraging abortion foes to believe it may reverse position. Johnson said the high court has reversed itself on major constitutional issues about 150 times, whereas court rulings have been overturned by constitutional amendment only four times, on issues including the 18-year voting age and the constitutionality of the income tax. Reagan urged the Senate of six years ago to ``make its voice heard against abortion on demand ... whether by statute or constitutional amendment'' and lobbied senators by telephone on the issue. On his flight to California after leaving office Jan. 20, he listed ``a change with regard to the abortion situation'' as among the issues he planned to be taking ``to the people'' as an ex-president. His spokesman, Mark Weinberg, said, however, that the former president has not mentioned the abortion amendment in prepared speeches he has delivered since leaving office, although he has plugged a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget and a line-item veto for presidents. ``I am certain, though, that as he said on the airplane he will discuss that issue in coming months,'' Weinberg said by telephone from Los Angeles. ``He has spoken about some issues, and will be speaking about others.'' Reagan has endorsed the amendment backed by National Right to Life, which would allow abortions only when necessary to save the life of the mother. Bush has said he would broaden the exception to include cases of rape and incest. Bush, asked on Jan. 27 whether he planned any new anti-abortion initiatives or would wait for the Supreme Court, said, ``I think probably wait, but I have been pledged, as you know, to an amendment. But I'd like to see the Supreme Court decision as soon as possible.'' On Jan. 25, Sen. Jake Garn, R-Utah, introduced the latest version of the anti-abortion amendment. This amendment, more far-reaching than the one defeated in 1983, would declare the unborn to be persons and provide, ``No unborn person shall be deprived of life by any person'' with the exception that it would not bar ``a law permitting only those medical procedures required to prevent the death of the mother.'' Similar measures have been introduced in the House. Neither the House nor Senate Judiciary Committee has scheduled any action. ``I frankly do not think that there is any chance, with the current makeup of Congress, that a human life amendment would pass. I don't think it would even get out of committee,'' said Nancy Broff, legislative and political director of the National Abortion Rights Action League. Johnson said Right to Life regards such an amendment as ``our long term goal, but we would be happy for incremental progress, and we see overturning Roe v. Wade as a big step toward that goal.'' Meanwhile one state has adopted an anti-abortion constitutional amendment. Arkansas voters approved an amendment in November, by a margin of 58 to 42 per cent, making it ``state policy to protect the life of every unborn child from conception until birth to the extent permitted by the federal Constitution.'' So long as the Supreme Court interprets the Constitution as guaranteeing women the right to have abortions, the Arkansas measure can't be applied to prohibit them. If the court reverses itself, action by the state legislature would probably be necessary to make them illegal, observers in Little Rock have said. Arkansas laws currently permit abortions so long as they are performed by doctors.
<relevant> Change comes slowly down the two-lane highway that winds through forests, dairy farms and cattle barns into Greensburg. It's taken four decades for desegregation to reach the seat of St. Helena Parish, and even now a visitor looking for John Hall's house behind the Masonic lodge is asked, ``You talking about the white Masonic hall or the black one?'' ``This parish hasn't changed since 1907. ... Education has been what kept it like it is,'' said Hall, a construction worker who has spent 37 of his 70 years fighting to give black students _ including his 14 children _ a chance. Hall filed suit in 1952 after being told that the school district didn't have money to furnish a black school. Ironically, segregation ended because the district couldn't afford to keep it going. This semester is the first in St. Helena Parish with all black and white students under the same roof. Under a plan approved in December by U.S. District Judge John Parker in Baton Rouge, classes were consolidated into three buildings, including one that Hall and other black residents built in the early 1950s. ``I'm not trying to take credit for anything,'' Hall said. ``I wanted my children to get an education and that's what they got.'' St. Helena Parish has one of Louisiana's poorest school districts. About 95 percent of the parish's annual $6.5 million budget comes from the state. Until Jan. 6, its 2,040 students, 70 percent of them black, attended seven schools. ``There is no question the St. Helena Parish School Board has been operated in violation of the U.S. Constitution,'' Parker said in December, adding that consolidation ``means desegregation will be accomplished.'' He said some of the schools ``are not fit for a dog house.'' Superintendent Perry P. Spears said all seven were substandard. Spears, who is black and went to school here, plans to do away with a fifth school and is working to float a $7.5 million bond issue this fall to improve the remaining two. ``I enjoyed my elementary and high school career in St. Helena, but at the same time I knew that we were not being supported equally,'' he said. The point was driven home for Spears when he became superintendent three years ago and saw that white schools had equipment like washing machines and dryers for the athletic programs. The black schools did not. Back in the early 1950s, black students often sat on soft drink cases, boxes and pieces of logs to listen to a teacher who didn't have enough supplies ``or even a chair to sit down on,'' Hall said. ``These schools were as bad as anything you've ever seen. I don't know why they'd send children up here to get an education at a place like that. I'd rather put them under a tree.'' In 1952, he asked the board for a new black school. Officials told him there wasn't enough money, but they made a deal _ build the school yourself and the parish will furnish it. The black community pitched in their meager assets and their elbow grease to build a new school. Hall returned to complete the deal _ and was told there was no money for furnishings. ``I told him right then that I'm going to take my children up there to go to school with the white folks,'' he said. ``He took him a good laugh. He and his crew had a big fun-making deal about it, I understand.'' Hall didn't laugh. He, his father, and two other black residents who still want to remain anonymous went to A.P. Tureaud, an attorney for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. ``They said you're going to have some mad white folks here,'' Hall said. ``I said I was already mad.'' Despite the warning, he said, the black residents faced ``nothing more than talk. All kinds of threats and talk.'' Although the Supreme Court outlawed segregated schools in 1954, Hall's suit and scores of other desegregation cases floated in the courts for years. In the 1960s, St. Helena Parish built a modern black high school. A few blacks started going to white Greensburg High School and a few whites attended classes in the black schools. ``It was all token desegregation,'' Hall said. Segregation hurt both black and white students, he said. ``You can't hold back one race without holding the other back.'' Over the years, running seven schools used up the parish's allotment of state-supported teacher salaries and resulted in duplication of basic classes. As a result, few advanced classes were offered and the students suffered. ``We have not been able to offer a comprehensive curriculum,'' Spears said. ``I feel that was the biggest disadvantage we had over the years.'' Under consolidation, elementary school students eat lunch in a makeshift cafeteria set up in an old gymnasium, and some attend class in trailers. Head Start pupils still go to the cramped building that black residents built. Most opposition came from parents, Spears said. ``They have caused a problem by letting their kids see how much they oppose consolidation. I don't think our kids generally oppose consolidation.'' In fact, students give consolidation a mixed review. ``It's going on pretty well now,'' said Pamecia Foskey, a black senior. ``It's all coming together. We're thinking of it as one school.'' ``It'll probably be better next year, but I won't be around to find out,'' said Kelly Smith, a white sophomore who is going to private school in Mississippi next fall. ``It's gone better than everybody thought,'' said DeAnn Fugler, a white sophomore who also plans to go to private school. ``It's too crowded right now. If the facility gets better, I might come back. It's hard to tell.'' About 150 students, mostly white, have enrolled in private schools or are illegally attending public schools in other parishes, Spears said. He is enthusiastic about the future, especially if the bond issue passes. ``I think that the community is going to have more pride in its schools. We won't have that competition between schools. The competition is because we had all-white and all-black schools.'' A recent high school basketball game was an example of what Spears hopes will become the rule. ``It was obvious that these were kids that had never been brought together before. The support was like we hadn't had before. It's now one-and-one. I feel good about it. It's going to be a family relationship.'' Hall, who thought his lawsuit would be settled in four or five years, isn't so sure. ``It will be slow, slow. The chance for change will have to come with the new generation, not with none of the ones who are here now.''
<relevant> The state constitution says Louis Peck is too old to be on Vermont's highest court. Peck disagrees, and continues to hear and decide cases. ``I don't think I should become senile as a matter of law,'' said Peck. ``I might be as a matter of fact, but certainly not of law.'' Peck turned 70 in December. According to Vermont's Constitution, he should have retired at the end of 1988. He did not, believing the provision violates a federal act that prohibits age discrimination. On his side is an opinion from the state attorney general's office saying the federal act supercedes the Vermont mandatory retirement clause. But a recent federal appeals court ruling in Massachusetts raises new questions about Peck's standing. ``We have an attorney general's opinion that concludes Justice Peck is qualified to sit,'' said Thomas Lehner, the court administrator. ``Whether the attorney general's opinion is correct is an open question.'' The 1974 provision of the state Constitution is clear: ``All justices of the Supreme Court and judges of all subordinate courts shall be retired at the end of the calendar year in which they attain 70 years of age.'' But in 1986 Congress amended the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 to prohibit discrimination regardless of age. Previously, the law did not apply to anyone older than 70. In 1987, Peck and Gov. Madeleine Kunin asked the attorney general's office to review the apparent conflict between the state Constitution and federal law. In an opinion signed by Attorney General Jeffrey Amestoy, the office decided the federal law must prevail. ``The supremacy clause of the U.S. Constitution makes it clear federal law controls if there is a conflict,'' said Amestoy. But rulings by the attorney general's office do not have the force of a court decision; they are only advisory. And a federal court decision in neighboring Massachusetts late last year shows there is room for disagreement. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 1st Circuit, which covers Massachusetts, said it could not find any evidence in reviewing the congressional debate on the discrimination statute that Congress meant for the law to usurp the state power to govern the tenure of judges. ``Without question, the tenure of state judges is a question of exceeding importance to each state, and a question traditionally left to be answered by each state,'' the judges said. ``Any federal encroachment on a state freedom of choice in this area, therefore, strikes very close to the heart of state sovereignity.'' Peck feels strongly that age alone is not a good barometer of ability and noted that justices on the U.S. Supreme Court routinely serve well past 70. ``Oliver Wendell Holmes served very well on the U.S. Supreme Court until he was well into his 90s,'' Peck said in an interview this week. Peck wants the issue resolved in the courts. But it is unclear how or when that will happen. The Massachusetts ruling has no force in Vermont. Only a ruling by the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, which covers Vermont, or by the U.S. Supreme Court, could end the uncertainty over Peck's position. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, on behalf of judges such as Peck across the country, is looking for a case to bring to the U.S. Supreme Court to resolve the issue, but it may be years before the country's highest court issues a decision. Meanwhile, Peck continues to review cases with the four other justices. Lehner said it is believed that Peck's rulings will stand even if a court eventually rules he should have retired at age 70. ``Obviously we are concerned because this is an open situation,'' he said. ``We have talked with Justice Peck about setting up a federal suit, but right now we are relying on the attorney general's opinion that he can sit.'' Peck said he has three more years in his term and would then have to seek legislative retention to continue on the court. He said he might consider retiring before his term is up, but only if the issue is settled. ``I am not doing this for my sake,'' he said. ``I'm doing this for the people who will come after. I am determined to stay on until this is resolved.''
<relevant> The national debate over abortion in recent years has focused increasingly on the legal status of the fetus, not a ``person'' under the Constitution but protected by various state laws and court decisions. ``The right-to-life movement has been largely successful in shifting the focus to the fetus, and away from the woman and her family, due in part to the pro-choice movement's apathy,'' said Dawn Johnsen, legal director of the pro-choice National Abortion Rights Action League. That apathy ended, she said, when the Supreme Court agreed to review a Missouri abortion dispute in which arguments will be conducted Wednesday. At stake could be the continued vitality of the court's landmark 1973 decision legalizing abortion. The legal status of a fetus is not a key point in the Missouri case, just as so-called fetal rights were not a consideration in the 1973 Roe vs. Wade decision. The court ruled then that a fetus, referred to as the ``potentiality for human life,'' is not a person under the Constitution's 14th Amendment. The amendment, ratified in 1868, says no state may ``deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.'' Roe vs. Wade said women have a constitutional right to abortion, based on their right to privacy. The court said a woman's decision to have an abortion during the first three months of pregnancy must be left to her and her doctor. It said states may interfere in the abortion decision during the second trimester only to protect the woman's health, and may take steps to protect fetal life only in the third trimester when the fetus is capable of surviving outside the womb. State authority to regulate abortions after the first trimester was not made absolute. Outside the abortion context, fetal rights had been expanding long before 1973. The trend has continued since, although affected by Roe vs. Wade. Under laws in virtually all states a child has the right to inherit even though he or she was not yet born when the will maker died. Since 1946, most states have imposed legal liability _ either criminal or civil _ on those who willfully or negligently cause the death or injury of a fetus. For example, the fetus is a person for purposes of Massachusetts' vehicular homicide law. It is protected by murder statutes in some states, such as Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Mississippi, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Utah, Washington and Wisconsin. Two years ago, the Iowa Supreme Court ruled that a fetus is a person for insurance purposes. The state court said the parents of a 6-month-old fetus who died as the result of an automobile crash caused by an uninsured motorist were entitled to collect from their insurance company for ``loss of consortium.'' NARAL's Johnsen said in a recent interview that treating a fetus differently in differing legal contexts is not inconsistent and said she has no quarrel with laws that protect ``the woman and her wanted fetus.'' In a 1986 law journal article, Johnsen wrote: ``Holding third parties responsible for negligent or criminal destruction of fetuses is consistent with, and even enhances, the protection of pregnant women's interests.'' But the article criticized courts for failing ``to recognize the fundamental differences between a woman deciding to terminate her own pregnancy and a third party intruding upon her body to end that pregnancy against her will.'' James Bopp, general counsel of the National Right to Life Committee, bristles when discussing the ``potentiality of human life'' phrase used in Roe vs. Wade. ``Is it human life? Of course,'' he said in an interview. ``No woman has ever given birth to anything but a member of the species so it is human. And it's a biological fact that it's alive.'' He said, ``The central question is whether the fetus has valued human qualities that society wants to protect. The question is whether taking the life of the unborn is consequential.'' Johnsen disagrees. ``Defining the fetus as human life does not answer any questions about the legal status of a fetus,'' she said. ``The central question is the legal implications of treating a fetus as a person under the law.'' She called extending 14th Amendment protection to a fetus a dangerous step because it would necessitate balancing the fetal right to life against a woman's right to privacy. ``Once you say politicians can speak in behalf of the fetus, there's no stopping point,'' Johnsen said.
<irrelevant> When the Rev. Thomas Hooker delivered a sermon one Sunday in 1638, his oratory sparked the creation of the world's first written, democratic constitution _ one that served as a model for the U.S. Constitution. This year marks the 350th anniversary of that document, known as the Fundamental Orders, and the state of Connecticut plans to celebrate with ceremony and symposiums. The constitution, adopted on Jan. 14, 1639, also will be put on public display for the first time in 20 years. In his now famous sermon, Hooker, a Congregationalist minister, asserted that the power of government lay in ``the free consent of the people'' and ``that the choice of public magistrates belonged unto the people, by God's own allowance.'' His words spurred free planters to adopt the Fundamental Orders at a meeting in Hartford. ``Throughout the Colonial period, all other states, except Connecticut and Rhode Island, had royal governors and were basically run by an aristocracy,'' said Ralph G. Elliot, chairman of the U.S. Constitution Bicentennial Commission of Connecticut. ``No state had greater self government than Connecticut, starting in 1639.'' The state plans to spend $35,230 to mark the anniversary. The main event will be a public display of the 1639 Fundamental Orders, the Royal Charter of 1662, the state consitution of 1818 and the state constitution of 1965 at the Old State House in Hartford.
<irrelevant> Backers of the Equal Rights Amendment made it the first order of business for the new Congress but say the real battleground for its adoption is in the state legislatures where it died in 1982. ``Our foremothers never gave up on the right to vote until we won, and we will never give up on the Equal Rights Amendment until we have won,'' Molly Yard, president of the National Organization for Women, told a Capitol Hill news conference. ``We are certainly not giving up,'' said Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., who was joined by 128 other House members in co-sponsoring the ERA as House Joint Resolution 1 before the new Congress as it convened on Tuesday. Yard said the campaign for passage would concentrate on state legislatures, where she said women would need to control one-third of the seats, about twice the share they now hold, to ensure the measure's ratification. ``It's shocking to me that on the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, women are still not in it,'' Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo., said. The nation celebrated the bicentennial of the signing and ratification of the Constitution in 1987 and 1988. The Equal Rights Amendment, which would prohibit sex discrimination, came closest to passage nearly seven years ago, having been approved by Congress and 35 state legislatures. The proposed amendment still needed approval by three more state legislatures when time for its ratification expired on June 30, 1982. It was re-introduced in Congress in 1983, 1985 and 1987 but did not win the two-thirds support needed to be submitted to the states again. The Republican Party has withdrawn its support for the proposed amendment. And President-elect Bush, who once supported the ERA, also has changed his mind. But Yard said she remained hopeful that such a proposal would be adopted before the end of the century. Edwards said he was encouraged by the number of co-sponsors of the proposal, but said he did not know whether it would make it through Congress this time.
<irrelevant> They were lukewarm about the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. They opposed the War of 1812. And in presidential elections they voted against their neighbor, John Kennedy, and their governor, Michael Dukakis. The people of this Cape Cod community have never gone with the flow and they show no signs of changing as they celebrate Barnstable's 350th anniversary this year. ``I hate to use the cliche Yankee independence, but I suspect there is an aspect of that,'' said Patricia Duffy, who has been helping compile a lengthy history of the town for use in the school curriculum. ``We are cautious. We don't jump on any bandwagons.'' Barnstable lives in the shadow of its neighbors Hyannis and Hyannisport, made famous by the Kennedy clan. But Hyannis and Hyannisport are not officially incorporated as towns; they are merely two of seven villages in the town of Barnstable, which occupies the midsection of the cape. Barnstable is the principal municipality of Barnstable County, which encompasses all of Cape Cod. It's the state's third largest community geographically and has a year-round population of about 35,000 that doubles during summer. But few outside New England know its name, although residents hope to change that with a 12-month celebration that promises much variety, if little peace and quiet. Festivities include a summer rowing regatta, a colonial costume day, a publishing party for the Cape Cod Almanac, and a Boston Pops concert on the Hyannis town green. The big celebration comes in early September, the actual anniversary month, and includes a visit by a delegation from Barnstable's namesake, Barnstable, England. The events the town will commemorate began in September 1639, when Barnstable was incorporated under a land grant from the Plimoth Colony. The town history describes reaction to the American Revolution as mixed, with wealthy Tories quarreling with patriots over British domination. John Crocker, whose ancestors were among the town's first 45 inhabitants, puts it in physical terms: ``In the Crocker Tavern (still standing) there is a gouge out of one of the beams where a couple of fellows had a sword fight over the issue.'' The town neither endorsed nor opposed the Declaration of Independence. A town meeting initially voted against the U.S. Constitution because it lacked a bill of rights. ``The people were more wealthy down here and they were tending toward the status quo,'' said Robert O'Leary, a social studies teacher. Early thriving industries included cranberry harvesting, which survives to this day, shipbuilding, lumbering, oystering and extraction of salt from the ocean. Today tourism dominates. Because of the importance of sea trade to Barnstable, the townspeople opposed the War of 1812 against Britain. This time there was no give to their position: Isaiah L. Green, the area's U.S. representative, voted for the declaration of war and lost his seat, according to the school department history. Residents remember the Kennedy era fondly. They speak of John F. Kennedy parading through town after his Democratic presidential nomination, and of his victory speech in Hyannis after the 1960 election. But at the polls, residents favored Richard Nixon by 4,515 to 2,783. They had no greater favorite-son feelings last year, when George Bush beat Dukakis 10,026 to 9,971. Joseph Kennedy brought his family to Hyannisport in 1926 but it wasn't until his son became a national figure that the sandy beaches and sunshine of Cape Cod gained national attention and later unrestrained development, say local historians. ``The beauty, uniqueness and excitement of the cape portrayed by the press put Barnstable on the map and in the world spotlight,'' according to the school department narrative. Cape Codders regret some of the growth, as they showed last fall when they supported a non-binding resolution in favor of a building moratorium. Former U.S. Sen. Paul Tsongas, a Cape Cod summer resident, said the problems on Cape Cod are as much aesthetic as environmental. ``Much of what has been built on Route 28 in Hyannis is schlock,'' Tsongas said. ``If the development that took place was architecturally consistent with the cape, it would not have been half as offensive as it is.''
<irrelevant> Today is Monday, Jan. 16, the 16th day of 1989. There are 349 days left in the year. This is Martin Luther King Jr. Day, a federal holiday honoring the civil rights leader. Today's highlight in history: On Jan. 16, 1978, NASA named 35 candidates to fly on the space shuttle. The list included Sally K. Ride, America's first woman in space; Guion S. Bluford Jr., America's first black astronaut; and four people fated to die in the Challenger disaster: Francis R. Scobee, Judith A. Resnik, Ronald E. McNair and Ellison S. Onizuka. On this date: In 1547, Ivan the Terrible was crowned czar of Russia. In 1883, the U.S. Civil Service Commission was established. In 1920, America went ``dry'' as the 18th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution took effect, and Prohibition became the law of the land. In 1942, actress Carole Lombard, her mother and about 20 other people were killed when their plane crashed near Las Vegas, during a tour to promote war bonds. In 1944, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower took command of the Allied Invasion Force in London. In 1964, the musical ``Hello, Dolly!'' starring Carol Channing, opened on Broadway. In 1969, two manned Soviet Soyuz spaceships became the first vehicles to dock in space and transfer personnel. In 1981, in Northern Ireland, Protestant gunmen shot and wounded Irish nationalist leader Bernadette Devlin McAliskey and her husband. In 1987, Broadway columnist Earl Wilson died in Yonkers, N.Y., at age 79. Ten years ago: Following a year that saw his country racked by political turmoil and violence, Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi departed Iran for Egypt, leaving behind a civilian government in control; he would never return. Five years ago: In a generally conciliatory speech, President Reagan declared ``1984 is a year of opportunities'' for peace, and he called on the Soviet Union to revive nuclear arms talks. One year ago: Jimmy ``The Greek'' Snyder was fired as a CBS Sports commentator, one day after making controversial remarks about blacks to a Washington TV station, including the assertion that, during the era of slavery, blacks had been bred to produce stronger offspring. Today's birthdays: Author-editor Norman Podhoretz is 59. Opera singer Marilyn Horne is 55. Auto racer A.J. Foyt is 54. Country singer Ronnie Milsap is 45. Movie director John Carpenter is 41. Thought for today: ``A man who won't die for something is not fit to live.'' _ Martin Luther King Jr. (1929-1968).
<irrelevant> U.S. Ambassador Edward Perkins today unveiled a bronze bust of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and said the slain black American's non-violent civil rights movement held some lessons for South Africa. Perkins told reporters he did not ``tend to equate'' South Africa and the United States, ``but searching for non-violent solutions is probably something worth thinking about'' in South Africa. Perkins, the first black U.S. ambassador to South Africa, and Zenos Frudakis, the Philadelphia sculptor who made the bust, unveiled the work under a tent on a bushy plot where a new U.S. Embassy is to be built. The 125 onlookers at the gathering in Pretoria included black and white South Africans prominent in campaigns against the apartheid system of legalized race segregation, and a low-level representative from the South African Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A 30-member choir from the Roman Catholic church of St. Peter Claver in Mamelodi, a black township near Pretoria, sang several civil rights hymns. Women in red headscarves and conical hats woven from grass mingled with dark-suited diplomats. One hymn was ``Senatla Martin Luther King.'' Senatla means leader in the Sotho language. Enos Mabuza, chief minister of South Africa's KaNgwane black homeland, told the gathering there were striking parallels between the racial separation in South African today and segregation in the United States during King's lifetime. A major difference, he said, was that the U.S. Constitution protects individual rights but South African laws ``protect white privilege and white-minority rule.'' Mabuza said ``the black people in this country have realized that the oppressor will never voluntarily give freedom to the oppressed. The oppressed must demand that freedom.'' Today was a federal holiday in the United States honoring King, who was assassinated in 1968. The civil rights leader would have been 60 years old on Sunday.
</top>
<top>
<num> 77
<title> Poaching
<relevant> Three officials of a zoo in central China have been charged with aiding poachers and buying illegally trapped monkeys, an official report said Saturday. Officials of the zoo in Wuhan, capital of Hubei province, were accused of buying 12 golden-haired monkeys from poachers, the People's Daily said. Zoo director Li Jiawan, deputy director Wang Peilin, and head manager Yu Hzncheng allegedly provided the poachers with food, transportation and other help. The monkeys, native to China and listed as an endangered species, are illegal to hunt. Some Chinese believe their bones, blood, meat and internal organs have medicinal value. More than 200 golden-haired monkeys have been killed by poachers since 1970, Xinhua said. The National People's Congress, China's legislature, recently approved its first wildlife protection law, intended to stem poaching of rare species of animals.
<relevant> Kenya's population of black rhinoceroses, prized by poachers for their unusual horns, is on the increase, the minister of tourism and wildlife said in an interview published Sunday. George Muhoho was quoted by the Sunday Nation as saying a new survey has shown the number of black rhinos in four special reserves at slightly more than 600, about 100 more than the government estimated a year ago. The minister attributed the higher figure to improved survey techniques, stiffer anti-poaching measures and better breeding conditions in the rhino sanctuaries: the Lake Nakuru, Nairobi, Amboseli and Aberdares national parks. A single rhino horn, actually a spiked tuft of hair, can fetch up to $24,000 in the Far East, where it is used for medicinal purposes, and in the Middle East, where the horns are prized as ornamental handles for daggers. Private wildlife conservation experts have generally placed the number of rhinos in this East Africa nation at well below government estimates, but Muhoho said the new survey indicates ``the situation is not as desperate as some people have tended to make it sound.'' In the early 1970s, there were thought to be 60,000 black rhinos in Africa. Most private estimates put the figure at around 3,000 today. Concerned about mounting assaults on wildlife, the government issued shoot to kill orders to law enforcement officers late last year. Since then, at least 12 poachers have been killed and dozens arrested in the crackdown.
<relevant> A poaching ring that involved the slaughter of more than 400 black bears in the Northeast was broken Tuesday with the arrests of 11 people, officials said. Officials said the bears were killed for their gall bladders, which are prized as aphrodisiacs in the Far East. ``This is just the tip of this particular iceberg,'' said Walter Bickford, commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Fisheries, Wildlife and Environmental Law Enforcement. ``We're aware of numerous other operations like this in Massachusetts.'' The arrests were made in raids that began at 6 a.m. in Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Florida, wildlife officials announced at a news conference. The raids were the culmination of a 2{-year investigation that ``tracked approximately $50,000 in transactions involving everything from endangered species to black bear gall bladders,'' officials said. Game officials from Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service participated in the sting. Dozens of pelts, including those of a mountain lion and several bobcats, and gall bladders confiscated in the raids were displayed at the news conference. The officials also showed photographs of 27 bear carcasses piled in a meadow in the Catskills. The hides sold illegally in the course of the investigation included those of two tigers, two polar bears and one arctic fox, officials said. Bickford said investigators bought at least 360 gall bladders in addition to carcasses and skins. The arresting officers also confiscated boxes of pills that were said to contain small amounts of rhinoceros horn, also considered an aphrodisiac. ``This is a primitive superstition,'' said Bickford. ``There is no proof whatsoever to the claim'' involving either the bear organs or rhinoceros horns, he said. Dried, powdered black bear gall bladders have a greater street value in the Far East than heroin or cocaine does in the United States, Bickford said. The organs can sell for $540 an ounce or more. Three of the arrested suspects were from Massachusetts, three were from Connecticut, four from New Hampshire and one was arrested in Florida. Wildlife officials said more arrests were expected in New York and an undetermined number of suspects in other states were still at large. The arrested suspects together face more than 100 counts in their states, ranging from illegal hunting to practicing taxidermy without a license. Penalties for each count range up to one year in prison and $1,000 in fines.
<relevant> Eleven people were arrested in a poaching sting that uncovered the slaughter of more than 400 black bears for their gall bladders, which are prized as aphrodisiacs in the Far East. ``This is just the tip of this particular iceberg,'' said Walter Bickford, commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Fisheries, Wildlife and Environmental Law Enforcement. ``We're aware of numerous other operations like this in Massachusetts.'' The arrests were made in raids that began at 6 a.m. Tuesday in Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Hampshire and Florida, wildlife officials said. The raids were the culmination of a 2{-year investigation that ``tracked approximately $50,000 in transactions involving everything from endangered species to black bear gall bladders.'' ``This operation is the most extensive ever conducted in the Northeast,'' said Alan McGroary, director of the Massachusetts Division of Environmental Law Enforcement. Some of the dozens of pelts and gall bladders confiscated in the raids were displayed at a news conference. Among the pelts were those of a mountain lion and several bobcats. Also displayed were videotapes and photographs of 27 bear carcasses piled in a meadow in the Catskills. Bickford said investigators bought at least 360 gall bladders in addition to carcasses and skins. He said the number of black bears apparently slaughtered for their gall bladders nearly equaled the black bear population in Massachusetts. Most of the bears were taken in Maine, New Hampshire and Canada, he said. The arresting officers also confiscated boxes of pills that were said to contain small amounts of rhinoceros horn, which hold the same value in the Far East as the gall bladders. ``This is a primitive superstition,'' said Bickford. ``There is no proof whatsoever'' that the bear organs or rhinoceros horns are aphrodisiacs, he said. The superstition, however, has pushed the street value of dried, powdered black bear gall bladders overseas above that of heroin or cocaine in the United States, Bickford said. The powder can sell for $540 an ounce or more. The investigation was led by two field officers from Massachusetts and New York, who took part in what Bickford described as strange rituals in their undercover work. One ritual involved christening new pickup trucks ``by building a bed of dead deer carcasses. ... When you're dealing with a group like this, you're talking about some bizarre behavior,'' he said. Three of the arrested people were from Massachusetts, three more were from Connecticut, four from New Hampshire and one was arrested in Florida. Wildlife officials said more arrests were expected. The arrested people jointly face more than 100 counts, ranging from illegal hunting to practicing taxidermy without a license. Penalties for each count range up to one year in prison and $1,000 in fines. The sale of black bear gall bladders is forbidden in most states, although the bears may legally be hunted in many. In Massachusetts, only the sale of the head, hide and hooves of deer is permitted under certain conditions. McGroary said the investigation began when Massachusetts game officials uncovered evidence that a Connecticut meat dealer had illegally supplied venison to a western Massachusetts restaurant he refused to identify.
<relevant> A man who has pleaded guilty to wild animal poaching charges kept a ledger that shows he netted about $600,000 from the illegal slaughter of hundreds of animals, including bald eagles, officials said. The ledger taken from the home of Ralph J. Jackson in Sequim indicates he poached at least 25 bald eagles and hundreds of other wild animals, Ron Perregrin of the state Department of Wildlife said at a news conference Friday. Jackson, 38, was charged with poaching 13 elk in late September after an anonymous caller told officials Jackson had an illegally obtained polar bear skin, Perregrin said. Investigators never found the polar bear skin, but they discovered illegally obtained elk and deer, and the ledger, Perregrin said. Sales listed in the ledger over 3{ years include 25 eagles sold for $512,650, 135 elk for $28,500, 286 deer for $24,270, 18 native cats for $15,150, 12 seals for $14,500 and nine hawks for $2,775. The ledger also listed purchasers and the investigation continues, Perregrin said. Federal authorities arrested Jackson in October after he threatened the lives of a witness in the eagle transactions and several investigating officers and their families, Perregrin said. The department has talked to many local people who knew Jackson was a poacher, Perregrin said. But no one knew the extent of his activities and just assumed he took a deer or two for dinner for the family. Records indicate Jackson was receiving public assistance. Jackson pleaded guilty in Clallam and Jefferson counties to poaching charges and was sentenced to up to 24 years in prison, Perregrin said. He also pleaded guilty to 10 federal felony counts of selling bald eagles and one count of threatening a federal witness. He is in custody awaiting sentencing Feb. 23 on the federal counts, and could face additional prison time and millions of dollars in fines. His wife Elaine also pleaded guilty in connection with the poaching, he said.
<irrelevant> A Nuclear Regulatory Commission panel has conditionally approved the New Hampshire portion of the emergency plan for the Seabrook nuclear power plant, saying it does not believe area teachers' claims they would abandon their pupils in an atomic emergency. In a 290-page decision dated Friday and released today, a panel of three administrative law judges said there is ``reasonable assurance that adequate protective measures can and will be taken within the New Hampshire portion'' of a 10-mile evacuation zone around the plant. Part of the zone lies in Massachusetts, which has refused to cooperate in the planning for an evacuation. The plant's operator, Public Service Co. of New Hampshire, has submitted a plan for Massachusetts communities. But the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board panel of law judges has yet to hold a hearing on it. A recent order from President Reagan gave the Federal Emergency Management Agency authority to draw up a plan and operate it if a state refuses to take part. Today's approval was conditioned on several paperwork tasks and resolving a traffic issue the board said had not been considered _ workers in the area going home before they begin evacuating the area. The board said it would seek advice from various groups on how to deal with that issue but added that ``the omission of the commuter trips to home will not have a large effect'' on the plan. Several local officials, including teachers, had testified at board hearings they would abandon their jobs or pupils in favor of taking care of their own families rather than carry out duties assigned to them in the evacuation plan. ``The board does not accept the implied conclusion of the teachers' testimony that virtually all of the teachers in the (10-mile zone) will abruptly abandon their pupils without even pausing to account for them and seeing them to a school bus...,'' the law judges said. ``While we would not expect heroic behavior from all of the teachers, neither would we accept panic from all of them,'' the licensing board said. The law judges found the teachers' testimony ``perplexing'' and said it ``does not represent traditional American values and history.'' ``Where those relied upon to respond in an emergency know that they have a role, and are trained to that role, as a group they will not fail their communities,'' the board opined. The $5.7 billion Seabrook plant was completed two years ago but has been idle because of the dispute over the evacuation plan. The commission has said it will grant a low-power testing license as soon as Public Service Co. can present evidence that it would be able to pay for closing and decommissioning he plant once its components become radioactive. The company, which is operating under the protection of bankruptcy courts, has said it expects to satisfy that requirement in a few weeks.
<irrelevant> A female whooping crane flying through heavy fog with her mate was shot by a hunter, the first reported killing of the endangered bird in 21 years, authorities said. The crane was killed near the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge where it makes its winter home, the first such incident anywhere since 1968, when another hunter was fined for shooting a crane nearby under nearly identical weather conditions, refuge manager Brent Giezentanner said Wednesday. The investigation will determine whether the hunter, whose name was not released, shot the crane intentionally or by accident, Giezentanner said. He said the out-of-town hunter and a companion were hunting for geese and ducks Tuesday in Spalding Cove, state-owned marshland south of the wildlife refuge, which lies about 45 miles northeast of Corpus Christ along the Texas coast. Giezentanner said the shooting may have been accidental, but added that ``there's still a lot of difference in a 2-foot goose and a 5-foot crane.'' ``A prudent hunter should have known the difference,'' he said. The 4-year-old female crane was shot as it flew with its mate through heavy fog above the cove, Giezentanner said, adding that the crane had brought her first chick with her on the southerly migration from the Wood Buffalo National Park in northern Canada. The shooting of cranes is not always detected because the endangered whoopers are not monitored constantly during their annual migration north or south, he added. Wildlife refuge officials learned of the shooting after the hunter surrendered, as occurred in the earlier incident. The hunter involved in the 1968 shooting was fined $500, the maximum penalty then for killing an endangered species under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Under the current Endangered Species Act of 1969, a person charged with intentionally killing a member of an endangered species faces a one-year sentence and-or a $20,000 fine. An accidental killing carries a maximum six-month sentence and-or $10,000 fine. Authorities said that apart from the 136 adult cranes and chicks that made the migration to the Aransas refuge this year, only 25 others are known to exist in New Mexico, and 40 are kept in captivity at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service center in Patuxent, Md. The whooping crane population has steadily increased since the late 1930s, when fewer than 20 existed.
<irrelevant> Perhaps the most easily definable characteristic of those individuals and institutions making up the U.S. economy today is a feeling of angst. It is pervasive. It has been going on for years now, and headline writers have just finished packaging it for still another year. You've seen the type: ``Economists relieved by 1988, worry about slump in 1989.'' Those fears have accompanied six years of uninterrupted expansion during which more people have been put to work than ever in American history, more profits made, more dividends paid. Inflation has been restrained throughout. No matter. There are big budget deficits, trade deficits, bad loans, shaky financial institutions, high but apparently still insufficient taxes, rising interest rates, threats of trade wars and more to deny anyone a sense of ease. As a result, optimistic economic forecasters dare not rely on their data but instead issue forecasts with asterisks of protective qualification. To them, the White House is always overly optimistic; it's a rule of the game. On Wall Street, bullish brokers tell clients to be fully invested, and then issue cigarette-package caveats. And in industry, in automobiles, for instance, they lay plans for a big year but worry about high interest rates. Individuals worry about the possibility of higher utility bills, higher interest rates on their variable mortgages, higher taxes (only 20 percent of that credit card interest is deductible this year _ half last year's rate). For the most part, these nervous imprints on the brain are the very ones everyone had a year ago and the year before that. Indelibly impressed, they are now set for another year of carrying tensions and fears, realistic or not. In contrast, however, there are some very good reasons for Americans to accept some satisfication and relief. The economy, for instance, is stronger at the beginning of 1989 than almost anyone could have forecast one year ago and retained respectability. The worst did not happen in 1988; the economy improved rather than deteriorated. In spite of all the psychological hangups, growth reached more than 3.5 percent and the expansion reached a peacetime record of more than six years. Moreover, that growth was in business capital investment and exports, sectors that the country needed to encourage. And it came without major complications. The stock market didn't crash again, as feared, and now it looks a lot stronger than a year ago. Corporate profits rose sharply, and so price-earnings multiples shrank to just a little more than one-half their precrash peaks. The foreign-debt crisis that threatened the stability of the nation's largest banks is now far less a problem. With some strong profits, banks have raised reserves against losses. Suspended interest payments have resumed. While far from being corrected, the merchandise trade deficit has been improving. And it cannot be assumed, in spite of fears, that the seemingly insurmountable federal budget deficit won't be controlled in a few years. Even the possibility of higher interest rates doesn't generate quite the fear it might have a year ago. There is a greater awareness of the dangers of personal debt; people seem to be a bit more saving and conservative. Nobody expects very big things from the economy this year, and they didn't last year either. And, in fact, ``big'' things didn't happen _ merely a steady accumulation of good little things and an absence of disasters. That angst, everything considered, might be the steadiest governor the economy can have.
<irrelevant> The Supreme Court today refused to let the government permit Japanese salmon fishermen off the Alaska coast from using huge nets in which porpoise and other marine mammals get trapped. The justices, without comment, let stand a federal appeals court ruling that blocked such fishing. At issue is an interpretation of a federal law, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, which spells out how marine mammals may be ``taken'' _ hunted, captured or killed _ in U.S. waters. The law generally bans all such takings of marine mammals but contains an exception allowing the secretary of commerce to authorize specified takings incidental to commercial fishing. The secretary, however, may not allow incidental takings of any marine mammal species in danger of significant depletion or extinction. The United States requires fishing permits within a 200-mile protected zone. In 1986, the Federation of Japan Salmon Fisheries Cooperative Associations sought to extend a permit under which it would be entitled to snare up to 5,500 Dall's porpoise a year in salmon gillnets cast in the waters of the north Pacific Ocean and the Bering Sea. Other sea mammals such as Northern fur seals and sea lions also become snarled in the nets, some of which are nine miles long. Commerce Secretary C. William Verity issued a general permit for the Japanese fishermen to operate after finding that the Dall's porpoise population would not be threatened. He could not make such a determination, however, for the Northern fur seal or Northern sea lion populations. Environmental and Native Alaskan groups challenged the legality of granting a permit to the Japanese fishermen. A federal trial judge blocked the fishing operations during the salmon season last June and July. The judge said the government could not assure that some marine mammals surely to be caught in the nets are not in danger of depletion or extinction. The U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals here upheld the injunction by a 2-1 vote, and the Supreme Court rejected the Reagan adminstration's emergency challenge of that ruling last June 9. In the appeal acted on today, Justice Department lawyers argued that the practical effect of the appeals court's Feb. 16 ruling ``would be to shut down large segments of commercial fishing by both domestic and foreign entities in U.S. waters.'' But lawyers for the environmental and Native Alaskan groups urged the justices to reject the appeal. Lawyers for the Center for Environmental Education contended that Marine Mammal Protection Act amendments enacted last November indicate that Congress agreed with the appeals court's interpretation of the law. ``Congress ... intentionally drafted the (amendments) so as to exclude the Japanese driftnet fleet and reauthorized the prohibitions in the (act) in their existing form,'' they argued. The case is Verity vs. Center for Environmental Education, 88-428.
<irrelevant> Big Bird, a great blue heron, has turned Vivianna Biesen's goldfish pond into a snack bar. Over the past two weeks, the usually shy creature has shamelessly reduced the population in the 25-foot pond, where she and her husband have raised goldfish for 20 years, from 100 fish to 60, she said. ``What does Big Bird think that pond is, Midget Sound?'' she said. The bird ``comes for breakfast, lunch, dinner and in-between snacks.'' ``If the fish he plucks from the pond are too big, he flips them on gravel near the pond,'' she said. ``The others? One gulp and they are gone.'' She spread rakes, brooms, 2-by-4 boards and shelves across the pond, but ``they only provided better perches for the heron to gobble fish,'' she said. ``As urban problems go, this one is pretty unusual,'' said Debbie Booker, a state Wildlife Department administrative assistant. ``We gets calls about starlings between walls, squirrels in attics, raccoons eating cat food in outside dishes, coyotes invading neighborhoods, but blue heron problems are rare.'' At the agency's suggestion, Biesen spread chicken wire over the pond, but Big Bird simply walked on the wire and continued its forays through the mesh. Finally, last week, she lowered the water in the pond to 2 feet from 3{ feet. ``The fish may have to swim sideways, but I haven't seen that Big Bird catch any of them yet,'' she said. ``He comes back regularly and walks the wire, but he apparently can't reach the fish.'' Biesen said she isn't sure what she'll try next if Big Bird gets to the fish again. Killing a blue heron carries up to a $500 fine and 90 days in jail, said John Gillespie, the state agency's assistant enforcement chief. Wildlife officials have suggested loud music, gunfire or a net canopy of the sort used to halt poaching at fish hatcheries as alternatives.
</top>
<top>
<num> 78
<title> Greenpeace
<relevant> The government on Saturday denied charges that French construction workers in Antarctica roughed up 15 Greenpeace environmentalists protesting an airstrip being built near a penguin sanctuary. A statement from the environmental group, issued in New York, said its members were knocked down and dragged through mud and rocks by workers at an airstrip at France's Dumont d'Urville station, located on one of five small Antarctic islands claimed by France. It was Greenpeace's fourth expedition to Antarctica, where the organization established the only non-government run environmental base in 1987. The expedition was to spend seven weeks visiting U.S., West German, Soviet, Italian and New Zealand bases in Antarctica to document waste disposal and pollution. The group went to the French base to protest the construction of a runway which they say will cut through a natural breeding ground and migration area for penguins. The clash occurred after protesters erected a portable hut in the path of French bulldozers and held a banner reading ``Halt the Airstrip _ Greenpeace.'' The Greenpeace communique said the station's officer-in-charge saw a video of the brawl and ``admitted the construction workers were out of control,'' Greenpeace expedition coordinator Peter Wilkinson said in the statement. A spokesman for Louis Le Pensec, France's minister for overseas territories, denied a conflict occurred and said the group received authorization from the government to visit the French station. The group had been welcomed on arrival Thursday by 30 French scientists, he said, speaking on condition of anonymity in keeping with ministry rules. He said the ministry had spoken with authorities at the base who confirmed the Greenpeace members erected a hut on the airstrip. Greenpeace has clashed with Frane several times. In 1985 the Greepeace vessel Rainbow Warrior was bombed in Auckland harbor by people who were later identified as working for the French intelligence service.
<relevant> About 20 Greenpeace activists dressed as penguins demonstrated in front of the French Embassy on Monday to protest the building of a landing strip at a French research station in the Antarctic. The environmentalists charged that the project, at the Dumont d' Urville station, is damaging the ecology of the region and threatens the habitat of thousands of sea birds and penguins. Other Greenpeace activists have staged protests at the site and have attempted to block construction efforts. A Greenpeace statement released in West Germany said protesters had been roughed up by French officials at the site. The group is demanding an immediate construction halt.
<relevant> Construction work has resumed at one site on the French islands of Terre-Adelie in Antarctica following protests by the environmental group Greenpeace over the building of an airstrip, the government said Tuesday. The Ministry of Overseas Territories said work on a second site was suspended after an agreement between the station officer-in-charge, Jean-Francois Houssin, and the Greenpeace expedition leader Peter Wilkinson. Greenpeace alleged Saturday that 15 of its members visiting the Antarctic to monitor pollution and waste disposal at several countries' bases were beaten up by the French construction workers. The government denied there was a fight. France has a 60-member team, half of them scientists, at the Dumont d'Urville base where the airstrip is being built. Greenpeace alleges the strip will open up the area for mining operations, destroying the natural habitat and breeding ground of the Emperor and Adelie penguins. Greenpeace said Houssin had seen a videotape of the brawl and ``admitted the construction workers were out of control.'' In a call to Sydney, Australia, Wilkinson said the militants planned to picket one section of the base until Sunday, providing there were no further disputes. In Paris, the government denied development plans on the islands would harm the environment. Officials say two studies were done before the development plans got the green light. On Tuesday night, scientist and explorer Paul-Emile Victor went on French TV to back the government claims. Greenpeace previously clashed with France in 1985 when saboteurs found to be working for the French intelligence services blew up the organisation's nuclear monitoring vessel, the Rainbow Warrior, in New Zealand's Auckland harbor. One person was killed in the attack.
<relevant> The Greenpeace ecological group said Sunday it would put up a human barrier to stop harpooners on a Japanese whaling fleet from killing more whales in Antarctica. ``At the moment we're just following the factory ship,'' said expedition coordinator Peter Wilkinson, interviewed from Sydney by radio telephone aboard the Greenpeace ship Gondwana. ``We've got some tactics up our sleeve, we plan a peaceful campaign of interference and harassment,'' he said. ``Basically, we plan to form a human barrier to deny the harpoonist the site of a whale.'' Wilkinson declined to discuss specifics. The Greenpeace ship has been shadowing the Japanese whaling fleet in Antarctic waters for the past week. He said the Japanese, who claim the kill is necessary to scientifically determine whaling stocks, killed 10 whales on Saturday. Japan has said it plans to hunt 300 whales this season, despite a moratorium by the International Whaling Commission. ``We are redoubling our efforts to expose this project for what it is: A simple slaughter of whales for commercial ends,'' Wilkinson said. He said said Greenpeace was told earlier Sunday that crews of the three Japanese ships would use water hoses and clubs to repel Greenpeace protesters if they tried to board the whalers. Greenpeace, which champions environmental and anti-nuclear issues, has been in the Antarctic for the past three weeks and has enough provisions to stay in the region until the end of February, Wilkinson said. He said the group probably will remain with the Japanese for several more days before heading south to monitor environmental conditions at the U.S. base at McMurdo Sound, which it claims dumps too much waste onto the ice. Greenpeace is campaigning to have the southern continent declared a world park. Antarctica is believed to hold rich mineral resources and Greenpeace fears that such exploitation could ignite military conflict.
<relevant> A Greenpeace ship collided with a Japanese whaling vessel today off Antarctica in the most serious incident since the environmental group began a campaign a week ago to stop the whale hunt. The Japanese ship, Nisshin Maru No. 3, sustained minor damage to its hand rails while the Greenpeace ship Gondwana was not damaged, said Greenpeace spokesman Peter Wilkinson. There were no injuries, he said. Wilkinson, speaking from the Gondwana by radio telephone, told The Associated Press the 1,435-ton Greenpeace ship was in a ``perfectly legitimate position'' when the vessels collided. In Sydney, Greenpeace's coordinator for Antarctica Lyn Goldsworthy said: ``The Japanese ship used an iron grappling hook and attached it to the Gondwana to pull it out of the way. In the maneuvering that resulted the Japanese boat collided with Gondwana.'' Immediately after the collision, Wilkinson said, there was a flood of communications between the skippers of both ships. ``The Japanese told us to stay away and keep a distance of at least 300 yards,'' he said. Japan has said it plans to take 300 whales this year as part of its scientific research to determine the size of whale stocks _ despite a moratorium imposed by the International Whaling Commission. Greenpeace contends most of the whale meat will end up in sushi restaurants in Japan. In Tokyo, a whaling official said today that attempts by the environmental group to block Japanese ships from whaling in the Antarctic are endangering the lives of the crewmen and amount to terrorism. ``This is terrorism, the same as that opposed by the United States and other countries,'' said Takehiro Takayama of the Tokyo-based Japan Whaling Association. ``They have no concern about human life.'' Wilkinson said that after the collision, the Gondwana, carrying a crew of 19, launched inflatable dinghies into the icy waters in an effort to prevent the loading of harpooned whales onto the factory ship. ``They then turned water hoses on us,'' he said. Wilkinson, a veteran of Antarctic expeditions, said the Greenpeace vessel later chased several Japanese catcher ships whose crews were hunting for whales with explosive harpoons. He estimated that Japanese harpooners already have taken between 50 and 55 Minke whales this season, about 10 of them since the Gondwana caught up with the whaling fleet a week ago. Wilkinson said Greenpeace would continue harassing the Japanese whaling fleet for several more days. ``The whales don't belong to the Japanese,'' he said. ``They belong to all of us.''
<irrelevant> Two peace activists attacked two Dutch air force jets with a sledgehammer, damaging the planes, a Defense Ministry spokesman confirmed today. The activists, one a former army chaplain, remained in military police custody on this southern Dutch air force base where the two NF-5 fighter-bombers were waiting to be flown to Turkey, the planes' next owner. The suspects were not identified in line with Dutch judicial practice. However, the Defense Ministry spokesman said one of them had been a Roman Catholic chaplain in the Dutch army before he quit in the early 1980s to protest deployment by NATO of nuclear cruise missiles in the Netherlands. Woensdrecht air force base, the missiles' planned deployment site, was the scene of numerous anti-nuclear demonstrations before last year's U.S.-Soviet pact eliminating all medium-range nuclear missiles from both Eastern and Western Europe prevented cruise deployment here. Early Sunday, the two men gained entry to the base by cutting a hole in its perimeter fence, according to the spokesman, who spoke in exchange for anonymity in line with ministry practice. Armed with a sledgehammer and an ax, they did an estimated 50,000 guilders ($25,000) damage before they were caught by a military police patrol, according to the spokesman. Dutch air force NF-5s, which have been replaced by supersonic F-16s, are scheduled for delivery to Turkey later this year. In November, activists daubed eight of them with paint here in a protest against alleged human rights abuses in Turkey.
<irrelevant> At least 323 people died on the nation's highways during the four-day New Year's holiday weekend, but the toll reported Tuesday was well below a pre-holiday projection by safety experts. The National Safety Council had estimated that between 350 and 450 would die in a statement released before the weekend tally began at 6 p.m. local time Friday. The count ended at midnight Monday. The state with the highest toll was California, where 39 traffic deaths were reported, followed by Florida with 34 deaths and Texas with 31. Statisticians for the Chicago-based council said about 330 people could be expected to die in traffic accidents during a three-day non-holiday weekend at this time of the year. Last year, 375 people were killed in highway accidents during a four-day observance of the holiday. The highest toll for a New Year's weekend was logged in 1965, when 564 people were killed during a three-day holiday.
<irrelevant> EDITOR'S NOTE _ In a small automated plant in the middle of a scenic forest in upstate New York, men in green jump suits are testing a way to safely deal with radioactive waste and render it harmless. Advocates of nuclear power are optimistic, environmentalists are skeptical, while the local folk swap glow-in-the-dark jokes. All is not as it seems in this wooded, idyllic slice of the Allegheny Mountains known as the Enchanted Hills. True, the Cattaraugus Creek still snakes through sylvan glades of the Zoar Valley as it has for centuries, cutting a 200-foot gorge that enthralls the trout fisherman and thrills the whitewater rafter. But less than a mile away, a cluster of white buildings surrounded by barbed wire marks the site of some of the most highly concentrated radioactive waste in the world, stored in a massive underground tank. If released into the environment, the resulting radiation from the corrosive, near-boiling liquid would make the scenic area uninhabitable for almost as long as it took to make the gorge. It is the legacy of a former nuclear fuel reprocessing operation. That ominous distinction has made West Valley, 35 miles south of Buffalo, the scene of the nation's first large-scale attempt to try out radioactive waste treatment technology. The principles tested here are expected to be used in stabilizing similar wastes at federal installations in Savannah River, Ga. and Hanford, Wash., both of which have significantly greater amounts of radioactive wastes. ``We're proving that the nation can deal with nuclear wastes safely and effectively,'' says Willis Bixby, the Department of Energy's project director. Many environmentalists disagree, however, pointing out that modern science does not yet know how to render radioactive waste harmless. The goal of the $700 million project is to get the liquid wastes out of the aging tank and into a more stable form. Although other countries, such as France, which relies on nuclear power for 70 percent of its energy needs, have been using the technology for 20 years, the United States has simply stockpiled its nuclear wastes until now. West Valley was the nation's only commercial reprocessing facility. During the late '60s and early '70s, it took in spent fuel from nuclear power plants around the country and extracted usable uranium and plutonium. The byproduct of the process was some 600,000 gallons of waste. When it was built in the mid-1960s, New York Gov. Nelson Rockefeller saw the facility as an opportunity for the state to get in on the development of a technology that promised to solve the nation's energy needs. He envisioned a massive nuclear complex that would include reactors and research facilities. But that promise all but disappeared a few years later as declining markets, tougher federal regulations and the radiation hazards to workers forced the facility, run by Getty Oil Co., to close. It was inoperative from 1972 until 1982 when the federal Department of Energy began the West Valley Demonstration Project, a multimillion-dollar cleanup effort. The first step in a complicated process that has taken years to set up is to filter the liquid waste through columns filled with zeolite, a sandy clay. The filtering reduces the radioactivity of the liquid by 99 percent. The liquid is then blended with cement and poured into 71-gallon steel drums. Officials expect to produce some 15,000 of the drums, each weighing 1,000 pounds, by 1994. The remaining, concentrated zeolite wastes are to be transformed into 300 glass logs. The 10-foot logs will eventually be shipped to a federal repository for high-level wastes scheduled to be opened in Nevada in the year 2003. Until then, the glass logs are being kept on the site. West Valley Nuclear Services Co., a Westinghouse Electric Co. subsidiary handling the project, activated the treatment systems last spring with some 500 people involved in operations. Inside the white buildings, technicians in green jump suits with meters attached to their collars to measure their exposure to radiation use remote controls to pump the wastes through filters and solidification processes. Except for an incident in 1986, when 11 construction workers were contaminated after passing around a contaminated tool, there have been no major problems at the facility. All but one of the workers were back on the job several hours later. Project director Bixby thinks the safety record will contribute to greater public acceptance of the nuclear power industry. ``We can't make up for the negative publicity of Three Mile Island and Chernobyl,'' he says. ``But we can be a positive factor when people consider the risks of energy sources and begin to re-evaluate nuclear energy.'' Increasing attention to the wastes produced by combustible fuels and the so-called greenhouse effect and acid rain will lead people to reconsider nuclear power, he said. Local environmental activists, however, say the project will prove otherwise. ``It's impressive what they are doing, but it's no solution,'' says Carol Mongerson, a member of the Coalition on West Valley Nuclear Waste. ``All we've really done is change it from one form to another.'' Mongerson says solidified radioactive waste remains harmful for thousands of years. A single glass log will give off some 8,500 rems, enough radiation to kill a person exposed only for a few minutes. The coalition sued the state and federal governments to force Westinghouse to conduct an environmental impact study of its plans to hold cement drums in a vault at the site. A federal judge ruled that until the study is completed, the company must store the drums in a temporary facility. Mongerson says West Valley officials are engaging in a lot of ``wishful thinking'' about the future of the nuclear industry. ``There really isn't any feasible way of dealing with the byproducts,'' she says. Meanwhile, life in the nearby farming community life proceeds undaunted, with residents scoffing at suggestions of a catastrophic accident at the site. ``Heck, we're the ones who make up those glow-in-dark jokes,'' says Bernard ``Bud'' Williams, supervisor of the town of 2,000 people.
<irrelevant> President Reagan's commerce secretary and the Soviet ambassador spoke glowingly of cooperation between the two nations Thursday as honors were handed out to people who helped in the whale rescue off the coast of Alaska last October. Those honored with ``Operation Breakthrough'' plaques and hats included businesses and government bodies that provided equipment and assistance, and the officers and crews of two Soviet icebreakers that helped clear a path to open water. ``The most important thing that came out of this whole event was what can happen when the Soviet Union and the United States cooperate together to make something happen,'' said Commerce Secretary C. William Verity. Accepting plaques on behalf of the Soviet icebreakers was Ambassador Yuri Dubinin, who called the rescue effort ``an extraordinary event of the year.'' ``It was the easiest Soviet-American negotiations because from both sides, immediately it was `yes' to organizing this cooperation,'' Dubinin said. ``Now we can see that ... this type of icebreaker diplomacy is useful for all relationships between the Soviet Union and the United States and for the whole world.'' One of the three trapped gray whales died, but after nearly two weeks of rescue efforts, two others apparently swam free of the ice on Oct. 28. The rescue was coordinated by the Commerce Department's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Those honored by the department were: ARCO Alaska Inc., Anchorage; North Slope Borough; North Slope Borough Search and Rescue; Barrow Whaling Captains' Association; OMARK Industries, Portland, Ore.; Kasco De-Icing Systems, Lakeland, Minn.; Standard Alaska Production Co., Anchorage; Alaska National Guard; VECO Corp., Anchorage; MARK AIR, Anchorage; Navy-NOAA Joint Ice Center; U.S. Coast Guard; Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska; the state of Alaska; Greenpeace and the crews of the two Soviet icebreakers, the Admiral Makarov and the Vladimir Arseniev.
<irrelevant> The Communist Party will draw up a slate of its candidates next week for the first multicandidate national election, and activist Andrei Sakharov received more support for his candidacy, Soviet news reports said Thursday. Under President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reform approved last year by the Supreme Soviet, or parliament, the election March 26 will choose the 2,250 members of the new Congress of People's Deputies. The ruling 13-member party Politburo on Thursday said the policy-making Central Committee of about 300 members will meet Tuesday to list the party nominations, according to the nightly TV news program ``Vremya'' and the official Tass news agency. The Politburo said it received recommendations for candidates from individual party members and local party organizations as well as the Communist parties of the 15 Soviet republics. The campaign began Dec. 26. A third of the Congress members will be elected from geographical districts formed on the basis of equal population. Another third will be chosen from districts based on their ethnic group. The final third will be chosen from the Communist Party, Young Communist League, trade unions, and other social and professional organizations. Under the law the Communist Party is entitled to 100 deputies. The Communist Party still is enshrined in the Soviet Constitution as the guiding force of Soviet society, and the law specifically prohibits candidates from advocating any unconstitutional action. The Congress, in turn, will choose the president and a smaller, more active Supreme Soviet. Tass also reported that Sakharov, dean of the Soviet dissident movement and the 1975 Nobel Peace Prize winner, was nominated for the Congress of People's Deputies by Leningrad's Ivan Pavlov Institute of Physiology. It was at least the second institute under the Soviet Academy of Sciences to put Sakharov's name forward as a candidate. Officials said last week that Sakharov also had been nominated by the academy's Institute of the World Economy. Both nominations will be forwarded to the academy at large for consideration. The country's scientific workers, under the new law, can elect 75 members of the Congress.
</top>
<top>
<num> 79
<title> FRG Political Party Positions
<relevant> Handcuffed by public refusal to accept a speed limit on the autobahns, West German lawmakers have issued a compromise order to curb rising accident rates. It is now the law that drivers must be polite. Aggression in the form of dangerously high speeds and daredevil maneuvers accounted for many of the 400,000 injury-causing accidents in West Germany in 1988, according to police and automobile club statistics. The revised rules that took effect Sunday include a prohibition against blinking headlights to pressure slower drivers to move to the right, as well as a finder's-keeper's policy on parking spaces, which are at a premium in most cities. A nation renowned for its fast cars and frustrated drivers, West Germany has more traffic volume than any nation in Europe. It also suffers the continent's highest injury-accident rate. Fatal accidents _ about 8,000 last year _ have been considerably reduced in the past 10 years. But the number of collisions rose by more than 10 percent in 1988 and moving violations were up by 28 percent over 1987. Recent mild winters, coupled with cheaper gas prices due to a strong West German mark, have intensified the problem of too many cars traveling too fast on too few roads. ``The problem is that drivers are becoming increasingly aggressive on the highways, borrowing the idea from Americans that time is money,'' said Andreas Zimmermann, regional traffic division chief for ADAC, West Germany's largest automobile club. The new ``Intelligent Use of the Streets'' legislation aims to diffuse some of the aggression by punishing drivers for infractions that until now have been considered impolite but not illegal. The more than 100 minor revisions to the 1971 driving code are seen as a token of consolation for the outnumbered advocates of speed limits and environmental protection. Public opinion polls have shown the vast majority of West German drivers favor a retention of the status quo _ no speed limits at all. They have rallied under the cry of ``Free Ways for Free Folks'' and through the powerful car industry and auto club lobbies fought off all attempts to cool their engines. More than 1 million of the 28 million registered automobiles are capable of sustained speeds exceeding 125 mph, according to the ADAC, which is the world's second-largest auto club after the AAA in the United States. Some politicians of the opposition Social Democrat party and the environmentalist Greens annually have put forward measures to establish a limit of 60 mph, but have been defeated by the dominant Christian Democrats and members of their own parties concerned about voter reaction. Short of forcing drivers to slow down, the new laws require them to cease the widespread practice of using headlights and blinkers to pressure slower cars into moving out of their way. Tailgating also has been outlawed, as well as passing too closely _ a favorite punishment meted out by drivers miffed at having to change lanes to get by a slower car. Truck drivers hauling dangerous cargo must pull into the nearest parking turnout when visibility drops to less than 165 feet because of fog, snow or rain. Vehicles long have been prohibited from passing on the right, but the code revision makes the offense one that can damage a driver's record and eventually lead to license revocation. Many drivers argue that despite the law, German practice on a three-lane autobahn dictates that slower cars use the right lane, fast cars the left and the middle lane is to remain open for passing from both sides. Some of the more controversial and less-enforceable rules govern parking, including a requirement that the first car in a line of autos circling for a free space has claim to the next open spot _ even if the driver has already passed it by. Drivers are also required to activate their warning blinkers as soon as they see a traffic backup on an autobahn, with the aim of preventing the kind of multiple smashups that often occur in the fog or when backups are obscured by a rise or turn in the road. Dieter Schulte, parliamentary secretary for the federal Transport Ministry and a member of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrat Party, said more than $230 million will be invested in improving signs and roads as part of the new legal changes. ``Not only will these changes reduce the hazards from backups and passing, but they will also save energy and reduce environmental problems like noise and exhaust,'' Schulte said. Others argue, however, that drivers will begin to depend on the new signs to warn them of road-blocking hazards ahead and drive even faster when no warnings are visible. ``With the best intentions, the changes may have negative consequences for safety and the environment,'' Zimmerman conceded. Some of the new rules, irreverently referred to as ``the Polite Driving Act,'' are virtually unenforceable, such as requiring drivers to alert one another about hazards they themselves may not react to in time. But the regulations are expected to deter some of the aggressive practices because violations will count against a driver's record. West German drivers are not required to renew their licenses once they have passed initial tests and a two-year probation period, unless they've accumulated a considerable series of citations in a short period. The point system differentiates between character offenses and accidents, ascribing a higher penalty for drunken driving than for killing a pedestrian in a crosswalk. Points also are recorded for offenses such as misuse of blinkers or following too closely, previously punishable only by fines. The success of the new system will depend heavily on the driving public, which to date has shown little interest or understanding of the revisions. Drivers questioned at gas stations over the New Year's weekend expressed amusement over the effort to get them to mind their manners. ``Sure I'll be polite,'' promised one BMW driver who gave his name only as Rudolf. ``As long as the trucks and the timid stay out of the left lane.''
<relevant> Ear-splitting military training flights over this densely populated country became a major issue in West Germany in 1988 because of a series of crashes, and opponents have vowed to step up their campaign this year. ``This self-imposed threat from the skies must end. Our populated areas must above all be safe,'' Erwin Horn, a federal lawmaker with the opposition Social Democrats, said Tuesday. NATO pilots resumed tactical flights over West Germany on Tuesday following a three-week moratorium in memory of the victims of a Dec. 8 crash of a U.S. military jet on the northern city of Remscheid. Five West Germans and the U.S. pilot were killed. Critics insist on more than a moratorium and say they will step up their pressure for NATO forces in West Germany to abandon low-level training flights, in which planes fly at altitudes as low as 250 feet. ``We want military low-level flights to stop permanently,'' said Werner Mey, head of the nationwide protest group, ``Coordination of Opponents of Low-Level Flights.'' ``There will be a whole spectrum of (protest) actions this year,'' Mey said in a telephone interview from his home in Biebelnheim near Mainz. The screeching of NATO jets on low-flying training maneuvers is a frequent occurrence in West Germany, where air bases are scattered across the country. There are about 400,000 foreign NATO troops in West Germany, more than half of them Americans. A series of military air crashes in 1988 has ignited widespread opposition among the West German populace to NATO low-level training flights. Politicians from the Social Democratic Party are among the most vocal opponents of the flights, at times scolding the United States and other NATO partners with warplanes here over the issue. ``I appeal to the Allies to stop their low-level flights _ and to carry out these flights at home,'' said legislator Albrecht Mueller, a Social Democrat. He said West Germany's NATO partners should not expect ``German citizens to bear burdens that their own people are spared from.'' The debate over whether to stop NATO low-level training flights has been a divisive one. Polls indicate that nearly three-quarters of all West Germans want the flights to stop. In fact, observers note it can be politically dangerous to support low-level training flights. ``Whoever says `Let's reduce low-level flights' is certain of meeting with approval,'' the respected daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said in an editorial on Tuesday. Government officials, under public pressure, say they want low-level flights reduced to a ``minimum.'' But they insist the exercises are necessary for the proper training of NATO pilots stationed in this country to offset possible threats from the East bloc. Defense Minister Rupert Scholz has been targeted for harsh criticism during the dispute. ``Perhaps a defense minister is needed with more experience and more talent in balancing out military needs with citizens who are tormented by ... military flights,'' the Munich newspaper Merkur said in a commentary. The dispute over low-level jet training exercises is the central issue of a larger debate _ often targeting the prominent U.S. military presence _ over whether West Germans are truly masters of their own land. The left-leaning Frankfurter Rundschau newspaper on Tuesday published a story about what it called ``round-the-clock noise terror'' from U.S. helicopter units based near Frankfurt. It said ``protests against the helicopter base at Bonames (near Frankfurt) have never been as loud as they are now.'' ``The U.S. Armed Forces have not appeared especially ready to cooperate'' in reducing the noise at the base, the newspaper wrote. The U.S. government insists its military forces do nothing to limit West German sovereignty or to go against the wishes of the West German government. But many leftists have charged that conservative West German officials wouldn't dare to thwart the will of U.S. military officials. Horn, in a list of demands on the defense minister, said Tuesday that ``German jurisprudence and German law should be put to use in order to work against the loss of sovereignty through non-use.'' The opposition party plans to begin a parliamentary initiative this month to examine whether West Germany's sovereignty rights are in jeopardy, and if so what can be done about it.
<relevant> Chancellor Helmut Kohl's government is mired in the biggest controversy of his six-year leadership over allegations that West German companies helped Libya build a chemical plant that can produce poison gas. Even members of Kohl's Christian Democratic Union say privately he has bungled the issue and threatened the party's popularity by dodging the question of whether he or his Cabinet members ignored early reports of a German hand in the Libyan project. Kohl's chief aide is to appear before Parliament on Wednesday to disclose new information about U.S. accusations that West German firms took part in the Libyan project by selling materials in violation of export controls. West Germany's opposition Social Democratic Party, demanding the ``whole truth'' be told, accused Kohl of inflicting lasting damage to the nation's image and to relations with the United States. The left-wing Greens Party called on the chancellor to resign. ``We're making complete fools of ourselves,'' commented a government official from the Christian Democrats, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``The chancellor must extricate the government from this controversy before the damage becomes irreparable.'' Kohl has been silent on the subject since Thursday, when he acknowledged during a TV interview there were ``growing indications'' of West German involvement in the Libyan affair. After several denials of government involvement, Kohl's spokesman, Friedhelm Ost, refused to say Tuesday whether Bonn now accepts U.S. claims that the plant near Tripoli is capable of producing chemical weapons. ``We have no new information on this,'' Ost told reporters. But on Monday, Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg told reporters the government now has ``concrete indications'' and intelligence reports that make clear the plant in Rabta, southeast of the Libyan capital, can produce chemical weapons. ``We must assume that the factory is a facility in which poison gas can be produced,'' Stoltenberg said at a news conference. Finance Ministry spokesman Karl-Heinz von den Driesch, sitting three seats away from Ost at the conference, said Stoltenberg had information from a trip to the United States last week that had not been seen by officials in Bonn. Ost said the government's position would be explained on Wednesday, when the chancellor's chief of staff, Wolfgang Schaeuble, informs the Bundestag about what it knows of West German involvement. Opposition parties have and pressed the chancellor to clarify to what degree West German firms have been involved, including one company owned by the federal government. National newspapers have been critical of Kohl's handling of the affair, describing the government as defensive in its stubborn refrain that it has collected no evidence that would justify criminal charges against any German companies. Munich's Sueddeutsche Zeitung commented Tuesday that Kohl had lost political control of the affair by evading action and suggested the government at least ask federal prosecutors to decide if charges are in order. Social Democratic Party leader Hans-Jochen Vogel accused Kohl of personal responsibility for a situation in which ``the German people and the world public have long been decieved, that German-American relations have been seriously hampered and that West Germany has been exposed to worldwide suspicion of calling publicly for a ban on chemical weapons while secretly fostering their production.'' Petra Kelly, leader of the Greens party's parliamentary delegation, demanded that Kohl resign over the government's mishandling of the issue. Ost told reporters in early January that the government learned of U.S. claims that West German firms helped build the Libyan plant during Kohl's Nov. 15 visit to Washington. Eight days later, after West German media claimed intelligence sources had informed the chancellor's office as long ago as 1986 of apparent complicity, Ost corrected himself to say the first word Kohl got of the affair came in mid-October. Stoltenberg said Monday that his office learned of ``vague'' indications in August, and Ost confirmed Tuesday that an intelligence report had been made to the government on Aug. 2. What is seen by Americans as foot-dragging by Bonn poses a potential threat to the strong position Kohl's party has in West German politics. If West German firms are found to have broken the law Kohl's government could appear to have tried to cover up for the companies, or been slow to follow up on the American intelligence reports. Carol J. Williams, an AP correspondent in Germany, has been writing about the Libyan scandal since news about a German connection first became public.
<relevant> West Germany has lengthened its compulsory military service from 15 months to 18 months, a move the opposition Social Democrats say could jeopardize East-West disarmament efforts. Following Tuesday's announcement by the Defense Ministry, the Free Democrats, a minority party in Chancellor Helmut Kohl's coalition government, also expressed reservations and asked that the move be delayed. Given that about 400,000 more draft-age men than needed are now available, the opposition says extending service time is unnecessary. The Social Democrats also point to a lessened threat from the East bloc. The armed forces now have about 495,000 members. Men aged 18 through 28 are subject to be drafted and about half of those in service are draftees.
<relevant> The right-wing extremist Republican party won its first seats in the West Berlin legislature Sunday night in a dramatic and unexpected election success. The election also was a major setback for West Berlin's governing Christian Democrats, which lost its parliamentary majority and plans to form a coalition with the left-of-center Social Democrats. Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in an interview with the ARD television network that he was ``alarmed'' by the Republicans' showing in West Berlin. The Republican party campaigned on a platform of ridding West Berlin of foreigners, who make up about 10 percent of the city's 2 million people. While public opinion often is directed against the growing number of foreigners in West Germany, Sunday's election was the most dramatic example in recent years of a major election success for a party with stridently anti-foreigner views. The Republicans won 8.5 percent of the vote, capturing 10 of 144 seats in the legislature, according to the ARD television network. The Christian Democrats won 36 percent of the vote and 47 seats, and the Social Democrats won 37 percent of the vote and 48 seats, ARD said. The Christian Democrats lost nearly 10 percent of its voter support and 22 seats from the last election four years ago. About 5,000 people, most of them young, demonstrated in downtown West Berlin late Sunday night to protest the far-right Republicans. They carried signs saying ``Never Again Fascism'' and other slogans. West Berlin's governing mayor, Christian Democrat Eberhard Diepgen, said the Republicans' successful bid to enter the legislature ``should not be allowed to cast the city and its residents in a false light.'' Walter Momper, head of Berlin's Social Democrats, said ``it's bad for the city ... that the Republicans were able to achieve this.'' Franz Schoenhuber, who was a member of the Nazi SS troops during World War II, is federal head of the Republican party, formed in 1983. Its West Berlin leader is Bernhard Andres, a city police officer. In the ARD television interview, Diepgen said he will seek negotiations with the Social Democrats to form a ``grand coalition.'' ARD said Diepgen's coalition partners, the Free Democrats, lost all 12 of their seats in the legislature. According to the ARD forecasts, the Free Democrats polled 3.6 percent of the vote, less than the 5 percent required for a legislative seat. The left-wing Alternative List party kept its 15 legislative seats with a 11.5 percent showing in the election, ARD said. Just under 80 percent of West Berlin's voters cast ballots, according to television forecasts, compared with 83.6 percent in 1985.
<irrelevant> The arrival of a record 242,000 immigrants from Eastern Europe _ more than half from Poland _ has strained West Germans' hospitality and ability to integrate so many newcomers. The Bavarian culture ministry, meanwhile, announced Tuesday that a Russian-language school will open next fall in Pfarrkirchen to help assimilate refugee children from the Soviet Union. Those making up the largest group of immigrants in 1988 _ 140,226 _ came from Poland, followed by 47,572 Soviets of German descent and 39,832 people from East Germany. The increase over the previous record of 90,000 in 1987 reflects a relaxation of emigration policy in the three Soviet bloc countries. Even more refugees are expected this year, said Horst Waffenschmidt, the Interior Ministry official responsible for refugees. Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reform efforts have eased restrictions on those seeking to leave the country, and the more tolerant view has been adopted to some degree by authorities in Warsaw and East Berlin. Politicians and labor union officials concerned about West Germany's 8 percent jobless rate have been increasingly critical of the government's policy of accepting virtually all ethnic Germans seeking to emigrate to the West. Many of the newcomers speak little or no German and are already near retirement age or have limited job skills. The East European refugees usually require government-financed housing, food, language training and other social services for months after their arrival. Saarland state governor Oskar Lafontaine of the left-wing Social Democratic Party complained in October that the ethnic Germans were getting priority over people from Third World countries seeking political asylum. Waffenschmidt, an influential member of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian Democrat Party, said the Bonn government is committed to doing all it can ``to ease for these countrymen their new start in our land.'' He said $1.1 billion has been earmarked for aiding East European refugees in 1989. Christian Democratic spokesman Johannes Gester on Tuesday urged the government to create a fourth reception camp for Soviet bloc immigrants to ease crowding at the three facilities currently registering arrivals and provide initial assistance for them. Thousands of immigrants are camped in crowded barracks and tent cities throughout the federal republic. Local governments struggle with short funds and a tight housing market to provide suitable dwellings. Emigration to West Germany from Romania fell by about 1,000 last year to 12,902, according to the Interior Ministry figures. There were 959 resettlers from Czechoslovakia, 763 from Hungary and 223 from Yugoslavia, the government reported.
<irrelevant> A senior official of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's political party lashed out on national TV on Thursday at U.S. suggestions that West Germany has a habit of ignoring exports of dangerous cargo. Volker Ruehe, vice chairman of the Christian Democratic Party's parliamentary delegation, rejected the accusations he said were made by both U.S. news media and officials. Ruehe was introduced on ZDF network's ``Today's Journal'' program by moderator Peter Voss, who said the harshest allegations were published in The New York Times, which he described as a ``traditional defender of Jewish interests.'' Ruehe did not comment on or suggest any support for Voss' description of the newspaper. The New York Times on Sunday reported from Washington that U.S. officials suspected the West German firm Imhausen-Chemie of Lahr, in the Black Forest area, of having supplied materials or assistance to Libya in building what Washington believes to be a chemical weapons plant. Times columnist William Safire later likened Bonn's claims that it found no immediate evidence of wrongdoing to the professed ignorance of ``good Germans'' about Adolf Hitler's Final Solution _ to kill all Jews. A University of Wisconsin law professor, Gary Milhollin, also wrote for the Times that ``it should come as no surprise that a West German company has been accused of helping Libya'' with the plant and said the Bonn government has ``rarely done much to discover or stop dangerous exports.'' Ruehe said at the start of his five-minute exchange with Voss: ``We must put all the facts on the table. We have nothing to hide and we are ready to clear up everything. ``But what is especially bad is that our political will is being doubted.'' He said West Germans strongly favor a worldwide ban on chemical weapons and this position is well known to U.S. authorities. ``We are an important allied partner,'' Ruehe said, adding that trust among the NATO allies is a basic. He said he planned a trip to Washington next week to meet members of Congress to learn what information they have in the Libyan case and clear up any questions. Bonn on Thursday announced it had found no evidence that Imhausen-Chemie helped build or outfit the Libyan plant in question.
<irrelevant> A spokesman for Chancellor Helmut Kohl complained Friday about how Washington and U.S. news media have treated a U.S.-German dispute over what U.S. officials say is a chemical arms plant in Libya. The flap over whether one or more West German companies helped build the Libyan factory has driven another wedge into a widening rift between Washington and Bonn. Relations between the steadfast allies was tested last year by lethal crashes of NATO airplanes on West Germany territory and U.S. insistence on continuing low-level training flights there. In one of the sharpest public exchanges between the two countries in recent years, West German politicians and news commentators singled out the U.S. news media for their reports on the Libyan plant dispute. The New York Times and U.S. News &amp; World Report last weekend disclosed allegations that West German, Italian and Japanese companies helped build the Libyan plant about 60 miles southwest of Tripoli. Libya says it is used to make pharmaceuticals, but Washington says it is a chemical weapons plant. President Reagan has said military action against the plant is an option. Kohl stepped into the fray on Friday when his spokesman told a news conference that the U.S. treatment of the affair, especially the way the news media has handled it, had ``not been useful.'' ``Chancellor Helmut Kohl has let Washington know this by the appropriate means,'' spokesman Friedhelm Ost added. Ost declined to disclose the contents of the message, which he characterized as ``urgent and friendly.'' West German officials said Thursday they had found no evidence of illegal exports by one company, Imhausen-Chemie of Lahr. They also said there is no proof that the plant is designed to produce chemical weapons. However, France, Canada and Egypt joined Friday in supporting U.S. contentions about the plant. U.S. officials, including Secretary of State George Shultz, have sharply and publicly criticized Bonn for what they describe as foot-dragging in checking into whether any West Germany companies helped build the plant. But Ost on Friday repeated the West German government's claim that Washington had failed to respond to Bonn's request for further concrete information. ``The Federal Republic (West Germany) as a nation of laws cannot operate on the basis of suppositions and suspicion,'' Ost said. ``I don't want to make any speculation about the possible motivation for the campaign by a section of the U.S. news media.'' Kohl told Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher to take up the issue with Shultz at an international conference on chemical weapons that begins Saturday in Paris, Ost said. West German newspapers on Friday carried reports on the growing tensions between the two countries and the counterattack led by Volker Ruehe, a top-ranking official in Kohl's Christian Democratic Union. Late Thursday night, the ZDF television network, the nation's second largest TV network, ran a lengthy news report on the controversy. Moderator Peter Voss said the harshest allegations were published in The New York Times, which he described as a ``traditional defender of Jewish interests.'' The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung in Frankfurt reported that Ruehe suggested closing the Goethe Institute facilities in the United States if the U.S. news media persist in their ``campaign '' against West Germany. The Goethe Institute, with offices worldwide, offers German language instruction and cultural programs. ``It was correct to sound the alarm,'' Ruehe told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Friday. He singled out for special criticism a New York Times column, which he said had characterized the affair as West German aid helping Libya to build an ``Auschwitz-in-the sand.'' The Auschwitz concentration camp, with its gas chambers, was one of the most notorious death camps of Nazi Germany. From 1940-45, about 4 million people, mostly Jews, died there.
<irrelevant> EDITOR'S NOTE _ Mongolia is one of the symbols of remoteness on earth. Yet this sparsely populated land the size of Western Europe is 100 percent literate, and inching its way toward modernity. Now it is taking a leaf from the Soviet Union to speed the process. Like its huge and dominant neighbor to the north, this ancient nation of herdsmen and miners, once ruled by Genghis Khan, is restructuring its Marxist society. But what the Soviets call perestroika, the Mongolians call ``shinechel'' or renewal. And they are greeting the liberation of the state-controlled economy and the infusion of democracy with an air of excitement. The old ways brought shortages in a land of plenty and political timidity to a people of great warrior tradition. Shinechel is still too new to claim many accomplishments, but there are great expectations. ``Before, we said that capitalism and socialism can't exist together,'' says Puntagdasyn Luvsandorj, director of the Institute of Economics of the State Planning Committee. ``Now we say they must cooperate.'' The main target of reform is the state monopoly on production imposed in the 1960s on both industry and, more improbably, in rural areas where people are scattered across a nation nearly the size of Western Europe, wandering the grasslands as semi-nomadic herdsmen. One consequence is that livestock numbers have stagnated at about 23 million head since the early 1970s even though the human population has doubled, to about 2 million. Half of the meat produced must be exported to the Soviet Union to pay for Soviet goods and financial aid, leaving city residents to stand in line, sometimes for hours, for scarce supplies of meat, the staple of the Mongolian diet. More than half the population has left the harsh life on the grasslands for cities, putting further strains on food supplies. ``The food situation is getting worse,'' said one foreign diplomat, noting that grain and vegetable farms, all run by the state, are plagued by ``bad planning, bad management and bad profits.'' The government is now trying to spur meat production by increasing the private stocks herdsmen are allowed to keep. Those in the Gobi desert region can now keep 100 head, while those in other parts of the country can keep 75. Farmers may now work small private plots. Industry has fared better because of heavy investment and technical assistance from the Soviet Union and other socialist nations, helping Mongolia develop its rich mineral resources. In December, Mongolia's parliament passed an industrial law giving factory directors greater authority over planning and investment. But it's three strikes and you're out. The government will bail out money-losing enterprises only two times before they are shut down. ``Before, we didn't participate in selling our product, so we were not interested in quality and meeting world competition,'' said Chimedeeren Erdenechimeg, general engineer at a carpet factory in Ulan Bator. ``Now, according to the new law, if we produce a good product and can find a market, the living conditions of the managers and workers will improve.'' Free markets, encouraged by the government, are still small but growing. Owners of private cars have gone into the taxi service, a few small restaurants have appeared and private clothesmakers are selling to retail cooperatives. But the pace of economic change is likely to be slow, said one foreign diplomat. ``It's such a vast country,'' he said, and ``there is little pressure from below for privatization'' because people are relatively prosperous and have known nothing but socialism since the Marxist state was founded in 1921, only four years after the Russian revolution, making it the second oldest Marxist society in the world. Faster change may come in the political sphere, where the ruling Communist Party is debating an election law that for the first time will allow direct multi-candidate elections. The party is also trying to limit the role of party officials to policy-making, and streamline the government. ``Marx and Lenin said the roles of the party, the government and mass organizations should be separate,'' said Kinayat Zardihan, a leading ideologist in the party's Institute of Social Sciences. ``But in our country this difference has disappeared.'' As in the Soviet Union, the official press is encouraged to condemn what are now regarded as errors of the past. The press now speaks openly about repression and political purges in the 1930s. Yumjaagiyn Tsedenbal, ruler for 40 years until his ouster in 1984, is knocked for forcing collectivization in the 1960s while his Russian wife is criticized for wielding too much power. Statues in Ulan Bator of Stalin, and other native oppressors, have recently been smeared with paint. Zardihan said the party is now rewriting the nation's history to include the truth about events that have shaped the nation. One government official noted that before now everything that happened before 1921 was regarded as bad, including the 12th and 13th century advance of Genghis Khan's horsemen that created a Mongol Empire stretching from the Danube to the coast of China. President and party leader Jambyn Batmonh, a 62-year-old former rector of the state university, is also hoping to ease his remote and landlocked nation away from its near total dependence on the Soviet Union and other Soviet bloc nations. Relations with China, with which Mongolia shares a 2,900-mile border, show signs of improvement as Moscow and Beijing patch up old differences. Mongolia, which sided with the Soviet Union when its two giant neighbors split in 1960, sent home one division of Soviet troops in 1987 and has now pledged to remove a ``considerable number'' of the remaining 50,000 Soviet troops guarding Mongolia from a potential Chinese attack. In early 1987, Mongolia and the United States established diplomatic relations and are now negotiating cultural and consular agreements. Currently 97 percent of Mongolia's total annual trade of about $1.6 billion is with socialist countries, 80 percent with the Soviet Union. Those figures will be hard to change in the near future. Mongolia receives about a billion dollars in aid and two-thirds of its capital investment funds from the Soviet Union every year, which locks it into shipping its ores, cashmere and meat to the socialist bloc. Officially, at least, Mongolians are full of praise for the Soviet Union, which helped build its cities and industry. Under Soviet-style socialism, Mongolia has become a nation of almost 100 percent literacy where 25 percent receive higher educations. Medical and other welfare facilities are inexpensive and worker incomes average nearly 200 dollars a month, one of the higher figures in Asia.
<irrelevant> The Communist Party leadership today went back on its promise of multiple-candidate elections for Parliament by choosing all 100 candidates for the party's 100 seats in the new Parliament. A historic political reform passed into Soviet law Dec. 1 said, ``conditions would be created for nomination of an unlimited number of candidates'' for the Congress of People's Deputies. Two-thirds of the 2,250 deputies are to be elected by the general public on March 26. The other third is to be chosen by certain organizations, including the Communist Party, which has the right to choose 100 deputies. The election reform did not say whether the party members would vote directly on multiple candidates for their seats, and Kremlin watchers were waiting for today's plenum to find out. The official news agency Tass reported that party members suggested 31,500 nominees, but these were winnowed down and finally just 100 were chosen by the 12-member ruling Politburo. Those 100 candidates were nominated by the party's 300-member Central Committee today, Tass said. But rank-and-file party members won't have the chance to vote on the party's candidates, Tass said. Only party leaders will cast ballots in a special meeting March 15 and 16, and they will not have a choice of candidates. Still, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev told the Central Committee he expects a variety of political platforms to emerge in the public campaign. Tass said Gorbachev offered a draft platform to the plenum today, but details were not released. ``The Soviet people are entitled to know the objectives and tasks formulated by the party for the immediate future, and the platform it takes to elections,'' Gorbachev said. ``We should proceed from the premise that the other social organizations will come to the elections with their own campaign documents,'' and individual candidates can also offer their views, Gorbachev said. Gorbachev was referring to other national organizations, including trade unions and scientific groups, which have been empowered to directly elect deputies to the congress. The Communist Party is the only legal political party in the Soviet Union. Gorbachev also expressed satisfaction that most candidates nominated so far in the three-month election campaign are supporters of his restructuring policy, called perestroika. Under the political reform he championed, the new congress will meet once a year to elect a working parliament of 424 members and retaining the name of the old rubber-stamp parliament, the Supreme Soviet. Tass said that before the party formally elects its 100 deputies, ``all Communists will have an opportunity to express their attitude to any of the candidates.'' Those actually voting for the Communist Party's legislators will be the members of its Central Committee, its Auditing Commission, first secretaries of the republic and regional party organizations, second secretaries of the republic party organizations, presidents and prime ministers of the republics, ministers and heads of state agencies, and commanders of military districts, Tass said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 80
<title> 1988 Presidential Candidates Platforms
<relevant> As a candidate, George Bush promised a ``kinder, gentler nation'' without saying how he'd pay for it. Now, with the day of reckoning near, President Bush's efforts to finance his campaign promises are meeting unexpected complications. The difficulty of crafting a rescue plan for the troubled savings-and-loan industry and disagreement over defense spending levels are making it harder for budget officials to finish rewriting former President Reagan's $1.15 trillion fiscal 1990 budget, according to administration and congressional sources. Bush goes before a joint session of Congress and a nationwide televison audience Thursday to hang a pricetag on his campaign vows and to show how he'll meet Gramm-Rudman defict targets while adhering to his ``read my lips, no new taxes'' slogan. Bush's budget, according to sources, probably won't look as good on paper as did Reagan's, which proclaimed a deficit reduction in the upcoming fiscal year to $92.8 billion _ down from the estimated $161.5 billion in the current year. The new budget will project a deficit barely under the $100 billion ceiling called for in the Gramm-Rudman law, which aims for a balanced budget by 1993 through declining annual steps, the sources said. The president's campaign proposals for new spending on education, child care, the homeless and environmental cleanup add up to well over $5 billion _ money that his administration is finding all but impossible to squeeze from already tight federal ledgers. With just a few days to go, Bush aides said, many pivotal decisions have yet to be made by the president, including whether to go along with his predecessor's proposed $4 billion increase in defense spending, or to freeze it at the rate of inflation _ which would free up about $2 billion for other programs. Although Bush has generally proposed a ``flexible freeze'' that would hold overall spending at the rate of inflation, some key aides, including Chief of Staff John Sununu, have reportedly been pressing for higher levels of defense spending. Administration officials, who insisted upon anonymity, have said Bush's budget will call for lower defense spending than proposed by Reagan, but how much lower had not yet been determined. Congressional sources, who requested anonymity, said the administration is looking into the option of no growth except for inflation, possibly over a three-year period. The administration officials also said that some of Bush's campaign promises will surface in scaled-back form in the budget, or not be financed at all. Still, a senior official said that the major ones would at least be noted, if not fully paid for. Among Bush's more ambitious campaign promises: a $1,000 child-care tax credit for low-income families; a $500 million National Merit School program to aid the country's best schools; a multiyear $5 billion program to attack acid rain; expansion of Medicaid, housing vouchers for the poor and a new tax-free individual savings plan. Bush will also have to find money in his budget to pay for cleaning up deteriorating nuclear plants. Given his no-tax pledge and the tightness of available funds, it seems unlikely that Bush can afford to retreat from Reagan's proposal to ax more than five-dozen programs; or to restore much of the $5.5 billion cuts in Medicare proposed by the former president. Coming up with a budget plan in time for Thursday's address to Congress has been complicated by the savings-and-loan crisis. Federal regulators say that from $85 billion to $100 billion will be needed to shore up the industry. Bush and his top financial advisers were huddled Saturday at the presidential retreat at Camp David, Md., trying to work out a solution. An original trial balloon by the administration to charge depositors a fee of 25 cents for each $100 on deposit was quickly deflated on Capitol Hill. Still, White House aides were reluctant to rule it out entirely, claiming the means for raising the rescue funds had dwindled to a precious few. Congressional speculation as of Saturday was that the administration would propose raising the money through the sale of special 30-year Treasury bonds, with an increase in insurance fees paid by financial institutions to cover the $6 billion to $7 billion cost of servicing, or paying interest on, the bonds. The president also must make room in his budget for his proposal to reduce the tax on capital gains to a maximum of 15 percent _ and then to use what he claims will be increased revenues from that move to pay for other tax breaks. Those include restoring tax benefits for the oil and gas industry and establishing tax-free ``enterprise zones'' in inner cities. In all, it's a big order for a new president who conceded even in his inaugural address that there was ``more will than wallet.'' In a speech Friday to a group of business leaders, Bush said, ``next week, we're going to have to come forward with some tough decisions.'' And, he added, ``I've heard from a lot of you here the importance of having what we send up there credible, so that world markets will understand that this is for real.''
<relevant> New HUD Secretary Jack Kemp, beginning a personal tour of inner cities, visited poor Atlanta neighborhoods Tuesday and said he wants to create ``dramatic incentives'' that will bring jobs and housing to blighted urban areas. ``There is distress and despair in many of the areas of the economy that have been left behind, and that's where I definitely want to focus my attention,'' Kemp said. One day after being formally sworn in as secretary of housing and urban development at a ceremony with President Bush, Kemp flew to Atlanta for a two-day visit to poor neighborhoods. He said the trip was the first of a series of visits to major cities ``to help find answers to the problems of homelessness, housing and urban economic development.'' Kemp met with the city's black, Democratic leaders, Mayor Andrew Young and Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., toured the museum honoring Martin Luther King Jr., and scheduled a private dinner with the late civil rights leader's widow, Coretta Scott King. Kemp received a warm welcome as he heard more than 20 community leaders but was also told the needs are too great for private efforts to work without government help. ``A lot of people have a lot of hope for you,'' said Millard Fuller, a leader of the Habitat for Humanity group that builds homes for low-income people without federal help. ``There's a lot of good feeling for you. I hope you live up to the expectations.'' Kemp's meetings were emblematic of the former congressman and unsuccessful Republican presidential candidate's stated intention to seek innovative solutions for inner-city problems regardless of the source and of national Republican intentions to seek support among blacks. ``This is an opportunity, after my swearing in yesterday, to come to a city where lots of things are happening to help people get in homes, jobs, shelter,'' Kemp said. Young led Kemp through a series of public housing projects and other developments where private groups, some with and some without government assistance, built homes and apartments for rental or purchase by low-income people. His visit had the feel of a campaign day as he went from neighborhood to neighborhood in a motorcade with police escort, with one bus filled with the press and another with local officials and supporters. Kemp visited the nation's first public housing project, Techwood, built in 1936, as well as neighborhoods such as Cabbagetown, Bedford Pine and Vine City where redevelopment projects are underway or planned. Much of the housing was in good shape, newly constructed or renovated. Kemp was not taken to Bankhead Courts, a public housing project that has received widespread attention for its crime and other problems, but Young said that the areas the secretary did visit had problems that were ``identical.'' ``We're not trying to hide the fact we have many, many housing problems,'' Young said. He said that on Wednesday Kemp would meet with groups arranged by Mrs. King and see other areas with worse problems. Kemp used the visit to repeat his pledge to seek the establishment of urban enterprise zones that carry federal tax incentives designed to attract businesses and jobs. Kemp said the incentives could include breaks on capital gains for qualified investments, with the tax breaks contingent on hiring people who otherwise would be receiving welfare or other assistance. Some of the projects he visited were built through the local equivalent of enterprise zones _ local abatements or forgiveness of property taxes that encouraged development. ``We've got to do it at the federal level because only the federal government can provide dramatic incentives,'' Kemp said. Kemp repeatedly referred to ``reincentivizing'' the economy through such tax breaks, and said enterprise zones would ``greenline'' urban areas that have been hurt by ``redlining'' _ a term for lending practices that deny capital for development to certain areas. ``Areas that were at one time redlined for despair need to be greenlined for success,'' Kemp said.
<relevant> Michael Dukakis' passionless manner hurt him as a White House contender and might well have cramped his presidency if he had won, former Democratic rival Paul Simon says in a new book, the first by a candidate looking back on the 1988 race. ``He enjoys campaigning less than some candidates do,'' Simon writes of the Massachusetts governor. ``His great weakness as a candidate _ and perhaps would have been as a president _ is that he does not convey passion.'' The Illinois senator's comments are in ``Winners and Losers,'' a combination memoir and critique that he described in a recent interview as ``a candid observation'' of the candidates in the race. For example, Sen. Albert Gore Jr. had ``a brashness of style,'' Simon suggests in the book. Bruce Babbitt became a media darling by committing ``political suicide'' with a tax-raising proposal. Dukakis was too remote. On the other hand, the Illinois senator gives Dukakis much higher marks than himself for strategy and dealing with public perceptions at the outset of the battle for the Democratic nomination. Simon had hoped to win the Iowa caucuses but finished second to Missouri Rep. Richard Gephardt and now blames himself for not acting more pleased at the time. ``My comments after the Iowa race should have reflected that upbeat mood of the electorate more than they did,'' he wrote. ``We had no plans to look cheerful. The Dukakis team had planned to look excited about coming in third and pulled it off.'' Simon faults himself for other tactical errors, too, and for failing to build his campaign around a central theme that would have been easily accessible to voters. But he also says he was hit by bad luck at a crucial point. He says he had a substantial lead in pre-caucus Iowa polls before Gary Hart resumed his campaign that had been scrapped amid reports about an affair. When Hart got back in, ``the roof fell in,'' Simon writes. ``Polls taken all over the nation immediately showed him in first place,'' taking the spotlight from Simon though Hart did not mount a campaign in Iowa itself. In a recent interview, Simon said, ``Gary Hart didn't get back in with the purpose of hurting Paul Simon. The end result was that he did.'' The book is the 12th by Simon, a one-time newspaper publisher, but the first intended for the mass market. Past efforts have been examinations of issues such as hunger and foreign-language education. ``My last book was about unemployment in this country, and there's just not a lot of people who want to read about unemployment. This has a little more general appeal, no question about it,'' Simon said. ``We've had all kinds of people writing about what a campaign is like, but it's a little different when you're sitting in the chair of a candidate,'' he said. Simon said he also wanted ``to reflect about what's right and what's wrong about our process.'' He characterized the campaign as too long, too superficial and too expensive, and he objected to a proposal for regional primaries, contending they would make success even more dependent upon money. Although he sent copies of the book to his former rivals, Simon said none has contacted him. ``The senator has not read it yet, but he hopes to as soon as he can get the time,'' said Greta Creech, the deputy press secretary for Gore. Aides to other ex-candidates voiced similar comments. Gore was 39 when he announced his candidacy, and Simon says ``his youth occasionally showed in a brashness of style that time usually tempers in successful politicians.'' Babbitt's proposal to increase taxes ``resulted in his becoming the media's favorite candidate,'' Simon writes. ``Anyone who is willing to commit political suicide in public ... has a ready market with political commentators.'' But ``as his failure to rise in the polls became apparent, Bruce became a little desperate,'' Simon writes. Simon blames himself for a number of mistakes, such as getting into the race ``without advance planning,'' sometimes misusing advertising, failing to heed his advisers and ignoring offered help from volunteers for Joseph Biden after the senator from Delaware left the race.
<relevant> The chairman of the Democratic Party emphatically rejected today the prospect of a fresh revision of the party's rules governing its presidential nominating process. ``I have absolutely no intention to appoint, empower or create any kind of rules commission,'' said Ronald H. Brown. The party chairman made the statement during a news conference at which he announced appointment of party senior staff. Several party activists, including Robert Beckel, who was Walter Mondale's campaign manager in his 1984 presidential try, have proposed taking a new look at party rules. While rejecting such suggestions, Brown said he would support one change: to restore the status of Democratic National Committee members as so-called super delegates at the next convention. Super Delegates are party and elected officials who go to the convention uncommitted to any presidential candidate and have the potential for breaking any deadlock. At the 1988 convention, the DNC members lost their automatic super delegate status to meet a demand from Jesse Jackson. Named senior adviser to the Democratic National Committee was Jack Martin, a Texan who ran Sen. Lloyd Bentsen's last two re-election campaigns. The new political director of the DNC will be Paul Tully, who has close ties to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., and who also worked on the presidential campaigns of Walter F. Mondale, Gary Hart and Michael Dukakis. Named director of finance was Melissa Moss, who has been principal fund raiser for the Democratic Leadership Council, a group of elected officials who banded together in 1985 to counter what they believed was the leftward drift of the national party. Continuing as communications director will be Michael McCurry. In rejecting the idea of another revision of the party's rules, Brown said, ``We don't win or lose election because of rules. ... I frankly think if would be foolhardy for this party to spend the next two years in a bloody and divisive fight over the rules.'' After presidential election defeats in 1968, 1972 and 1980, the Democrats engaged in sweeping revisions of the party rules. Adfter the 1984 defeat, the party went through a more modest change.
<relevant> The odds were heavily against Richard Gephardt when he sought the White House. Now he's on another track, and the odds are on his side. One day, the new leader of the House Democratic majority can almost certainly become the 50th speaker of the House. As his party's floor leader, he is in the job that has produced the last 12 speakers. Rep. Thomas S. Foley's promotion from majority leader to speaker two weeks ago opened the leadership spot for Gephardt to win. It's not the White House, but it's not bad work. And of course, Gephardt's options are open. He's ruled out a presidential bid in 1992. But at 48 he's got plenty of time to change political goals again. With a 258-175 majority over the Republicans _ in an era when incumbents seldom lose _ the Democrats are likely to be electing speakers for quite a while. Gephardt and Foley, who begins his speakership at 60, give the Democrats a new-look team that blends the get-along skill of the legislative insider with the political savvy of the national campaigner. And Gephardt was known as an able congressional politician before he tried to go national. Third man in the leadership is the new Democratic whip, Rep. William H. Gray III of Pennsylvania. Gray, the first black to win a top leadership post, proved able and adept as chairman of the House Budget Committee where he held what had been a wavering Democratic line against the lure of Reaganomics. Gephardt turned aside questions about his future presidential ambitions by saying the voters made that call for him in 1988. But he clearly had been planning another bid for the White House in 1992 until the swift and unforeseeable shakeup that opened his path to the leadership. That came when Rep. Tony Coelho of California, the Democratic whip, announced that he was resigning rather thn undergo an ethics investigation into a 1986 junk bonds deal. He was in line to succeed Foley as majority leader with the resignation of Speaker Jim Wright. Coelho left the House on Thursday, his 47th birthday. A few weeks earlier, Gephardt had mused aloud about the personal and financial demands of another bid for the presidential nomination, saying he had not decided whether to take them on in advance of 1992. He said he knew that would require him to get started soon and he didn't like that idea. The question, he said then, was whether he could effectively pursue his policy goals in Congress. Now, as majority leader, he intends to. Gephardt said after winning the leader's job that he agreed with Speaker Foley on the priority agenda, including ethics and campaign reform. Then he turned to the economic issues that were the themes of his 1988 campaign. ``In my humble opinion, America is beginning to be in a state of decline,'' said Gephardt, who pressed issues of trade and productivity during his presidential run. ``And we as Democrats have to lead ... Even though the presidency is held by a different party, and even though getting our consensus together on the Democratic side is always difficult to do.'' Gephardt entered the Democratic presidential field as an early advocate of tax reform and a champion of protectionist trade legislation. ``It's your fight, too,'' was his message to the voters. The seasoning he gained and the scrutiny he faced as a presidential candidate will serve Gephardt well in his new role. Like Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole, who ran twice for the White House, he knows the techniques of national politics better than colleagues who have done all their campaigning in home districts or congressional cloakrooms. Both he and Dole won the Iowa caucuses, the leadoff events of the 1988 campaign, then foundered and were finished by the March 8 Super Tuesday primaries. Gephardt quit in time to file for reelection to the House from his St. Louis district, saying he'd done his best, made his mistakes and had no complaints or alibis. Gephardt faced sharp challenges in 1988 campaign debates for changing his positions over the years on such issues as a constitutional amendment to ban abortion, on school busing, on Reaganomics. He said change was evidence of growth, of seeking better ways to do things. That explanation plays better in the congressional world of compromise and consensus than in the presidential campaign arena. Now he's tried both, and says he is not going to use the House leadership as a stepping stone to anything else. ``You can't be an effective majority leader and be running for president,'' he said. As for the odds: The last sitting House member to vault directly to the White House was Rep. James A. Garfield, in 1880. Not since 1919 has the House majority elected a speaker who did not serve first as his party's floor leader. Walter R. Mears, vice president and columnist for The Associated Press, has reported on Washington and national politics for more than 25 years.
<irrelevant> The five contenders to replace retiring Paul G. Kirk Jr. as Democratic Party chairman take to the road this weekend for a series of regional meetings aimed at selecting a leader who can staunch the flow of voters from its ranks. The front-runners for the chairmanship are Richard Wiener of Michigan, president of the Association of State Party Chairs, and Ronald H. Brown, a Washington attorney who was a top adviser to Jesse Jackson in the late stages of his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. Also competing for support were three former congressmen _ Jim Jones of Oklahoma, Michael Barnes of Maryland and James V. Stanton of Ohio. Ever since Kirk announced early last month that he would not run for a second four-year term despite the pleas of many party leaders, the contenders to succeed him have competed for the endorsements of big-name Democrats. Brown quickly lined up Sens. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Bill Bradley of New Jersey and Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York. Stanton was backed by former House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. of Massachusetts and by House Ways and Means Committee chairman Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois. Jones got the support of Sens. Sam Nunn of Georgia and John Breaux of Louisiana, while Barnes was backed by former presidential nominee Walter F. Mondale and former Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie. But few if any of the big names making endorsements will cast votes on Feb. 10 when the Democratic National Committee meets in Washington to elect the new party chairman. That is where Wiener has his strength. Many of the state party leaders who worked with the Michigan party chairman quickly lined up behind him after Kirk decided four years was enough. Many Democrats who tried to convince Kirk to serve a second term argued that a fight for the chairmanship after another losing presidential campaign _ the fifth in six elections for the White House _ would further damage the party's standing among voters. Some Democrats privately questioned whether the selection of Brown, who is black and identified with Jackson, would alienate Southern and blue-collar voters who have deserted the Democrats in recent presidential elections. Brown has responded that many of the same Democrats who were condemning his tie to Jackson were cheering last spring when he agreed to serve as the candidate's convention manager. Jones said the question was philosophy rather than race, saying that Brown was too identified with the party's liberal wing at a time when a centrist was needed as the Democratic spokesman. ``What Ron Brown is saying is that he should not be judged by Jesse Jackson but by the fact that he was campaign manager for Ted Kennedy against Jim Carter,'' said the former Oklahoma congressman, ``and I think that's sort of legitimate and I think that's what the decision is going to be made from.'' The contenders will meet Saturday in Chicago with Midwest members of the DNC and then travel to Atlanta for a meeting on Sunday with Southerners. Another session is scheduled for Tuesday in Newark, N.J., and a final one the following Saturday in Salt Lake City. All five candidates appeared Thursday before union political directors at the AFL-CIO headquarters. Of the 404 votes on the DNC, 46 are cast by union representatives. But labor's influence is considered far greater than that, and all the candidates will be watching closely next week when individual union presidents meet with AFL-CIO President Lane Kirkland to determine whether labor will issue an endorsement.
<irrelevant> Robert A. Farmer, who set a Democratic Party fund-raising record in 1988, announced Friday his candidacy for treasurer of the Democratic National Committee. Farmer, who was credited with raising nearly $70 million for the 1988 campaign, said he would set a goal of raising at least $100 million for the party over the next four years. When asked for his view of so-called soft money, political contributions outside the limits covering most donations to candidates and parties, Farmer said, ``The rules are the rules and I refuse to apologize for raising money at the level of the Republicans.'' Would he continue seeking soft money? ``Absolutely,'' said Farmer. Both parties raised millions of dollars last year from individuals who gave up to $100,000 each. That money was used for voter registration drives and other activities defined as strengthening local parties rather than directly advocating the election of candidates for president or Congress. Individuals are limited to contributions of $1,000 to candidates for federal office and $5,000 to political action committees. There is a $20,000 limit on individual contributions to national party committees. Farmer, who headed the fund-raising operation for Michael Dukakis, said he didn't know if the Massachusetts governor would seek the presidency again in 1992, but added, ``I don't think he's going to be a candidate.'' Sharon Pratt Dixon, the current party treasurer, is not seeking another term and Farmer is not expected to have serious opposition for the post when it is filled when the DNC meets next month.
<irrelevant> The 1988 presidential campaign and the makers of Scotch Tape, Eveready Batteries and Jordache Basics jeans produced some of the worst _ albeit memorable _ advertisements of last year, Adweek magazine said in a survey released today. In announcing its 7th annual ``Badvertising Awards,'' the weekly trade magazine denounced the presidential campaign for showing voters ``some incompetent advertising.'' It cited the campaign of Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis, in particular, for its so-called ``handlers'' series. The television ads showed actors portraying cynical Bush handlers trying to disguise their candidate's alleged shortcomings. Adweek also said, ``Some ads run by pro-Bush organizations were so distateful that the Bush campaign was obliged to disown them.'' The magazine said the results of its survey were based on comments from its editorial staffers and readers. ``Every year we all see hundreds of ads that are forgettably bad. A few ads, though, manage to be memorably bad,'' the trade magazine said in its Jan. 16 issue. Among the other recipients of Adweek's Badvertising Award: _Scotch Tape for its ``mean-spirited spot demonstrating the product's effectiveness by dunking a woman repeatedly into a tank of water.'' _Eveready Batteries for ``its insensitivey to contemporay realities.'' The spot in question featured a gun-toting toddler with the appellation, ``Holy Terror,'' which Adweek claimed was too easily translated to ``terrorist.'' _Jordache Basics for ``featuring whining teens making no particular point in their 30-second spot.'' _Mercedes S. Class because it ``glamorizes fast driving and gives reckless speeding an inapprorpiately upscale gloss.'' _AT&amp;T International Long Distnce for a spot that contains ``dialogue between two colleagues (that) suggests that backstabbing is the only way to get ahead in business.''
<irrelevant> The Communist Party leadership today went back on its promise of multiple-candidate elections for Parliament by choosing all 100 candidates for the party's 100 seats in the new Parliament. A historic political reform passed into Soviet law Dec. 1 said, ``conditions would be created for nomination of an unlimited number of candidates'' for the Congress of People's Deputies. Two-thirds of the 2,250 deputies are to be elected by the general public on March 26. The other third is to be chosen by certain organizations, including the Communist Party, which has the right to choose 100 deputies. The election reform did not say whether the party members would vote directly on multiple candidates for their seats, and Kremlin watchers were waiting for today's plenum to find out. The official news agency Tass reported that party members suggested 31,500 nominees, but these were winnowed down and finally just 100 were chosen by the 12-member ruling Politburo. Those 100 candidates were nominated by the party's 300-member Central Committee today, Tass said. But rank-and-file party members won't have the chance to vote on the party's candidates, Tass said. Only party leaders will cast ballots in a special meeting March 15 and 16, and they will not have a choice of candidates. Still, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev told the Central Committee he expects a variety of political platforms to emerge in the public campaign. Tass said Gorbachev offered a draft platform to the plenum today, but details were not released. ``The Soviet people are entitled to know the objectives and tasks formulated by the party for the immediate future, and the platform it takes to elections,'' Gorbachev said. ``We should proceed from the premise that the other social organizations will come to the elections with their own campaign documents,'' and individual candidates can also offer their views, Gorbachev said. Gorbachev was referring to other national organizations, including trade unions and scientific groups, which have been empowered to directly elect deputies to the congress. The Communist Party is the only legal political party in the Soviet Union. Gorbachev also expressed satisfaction that most candidates nominated so far in the three-month election campaign are supporters of his restructuring policy, called perestroika. Under the political reform he championed, the new congress will meet once a year to elect a working parliament of 424 members and retaining the name of the old rubber-stamp parliament, the Supreme Soviet. Tass said that before the party formally elects its 100 deputies, ``all Communists will have an opportunity to express their attitude to any of the candidates.'' Those actually voting for the Communist Party's legislators will be the members of its Central Committee, its Auditing Commission, first secretaries of the republic and regional party organizations, second secretaries of the republic party organizations, presidents and prime ministers of the republics, ministers and heads of state agencies, and commanders of military districts, Tass said.
<irrelevant> Multiple-candidate parliamentary elections still are promised for March, but the Kremlin set the opposite example Tuesday by choosing only 100 nominees from the Communist Party, one for each of the seats assigned to it. Historic political reforms passed into law Dec. 1 said ``conditions would be created for nomination of an unlimited number of candidates'' for the Congress of People's Deputies, the new Soviet parliament. Two-thirds of the 2,250 deputies are to be elected by the public March 26. One-third are being chosen by organizations _ including the Communist Party, which has 100 seats, and trade unions and scientific groups. But based on the Central Committee action Tuesday, party members will have no choice in electing their deputies, since only 100 candidates were nominated. In a speech delivered before the decision, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev said 312 names remaining from tens of thousands submitted had gone to the ruling 12-member Politburo, and it reduced the list to 100 before sending it to the Central Committee. No change has been made in the language of the new election law, but the party's example ``will set the standard'' and other organizations will be less likely to offer real choices, a Western diplomat said on condition of anonymity. Multiple candidates already have been nominated in some areas. Tass, the official news agency, said 26 candidates were chosen in 19 Moscow districts. Other signals from Tuesday's meeting of the party Central Committee were conflicting. Gorbachev, who has promised repeatedly that the elections will be part of his ``democratization'' of the Soviet Union, offered a draft political platform for the party and suggested other organizations would offer their own. ``The Soviet people are entitled to know the objectives and tasks formulated by the party for the immediate future, and the platform it takes to elections,'' Tass quoted Gorbachev as saying. The document was not released Tuesday. ``We should proceed from the premise that the other social organizations will come to the elections with their own campaign documents,'' and individual candidates can also offer their views, Gorbachev said. He was referring to other national organizations, including trade unions and scientific groups, which have been empowered to directly elect deputies to the congress. The Communist Party is the only legal political party in the Soviet Union. Gorbachev also expressed satisfaction that most candidates nominated so far in the three-month election campaign are supporters of perestroika, his policy of reforming the Soviet system. But the president complained the campaign has produced ``manifestations of group egotism, ambition and political careerism,'' and worried that some candidates might play on ethnic disputes. Under the political reform adopted in December, the new congress will meet once a year to elect a smaller working parliament of 424 members. Gorbachev said that party members had suggested 31,500 nominees for its seats in the new congress. But these were winnowed down and finally just 100 were chosen by the 12-member ruling Politburo. Those 100 candidates were nominated by the party's 300-member Central Committee Tuesday, Tass said. A Western diplomat said it was possible that others could be nominated at the last minute. Tass said that before the party formally elects its 100 deputies, ``all communists will have an opportunity to express their attitude to any of the candidates.'' But even then, rank-and-file party members won't even have the chance to vote, Tass said. Only party leaders will cast ballots in a special meeting March 15-16. Those empowered to vote for the party's legislators will be members of its Central Committee, its auditing commission, first secretaries of the republic and regional party organizations, second secretaries of the republic party organizations, presidents and prime ministers of the republics, ministers and heads of state agencies, and commanders of military districts, Tass said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 81
<title> Financial crunch for televangelists in the wake of the PTL
<relevant> Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker returned to television today after a two-year absence with a show broadcast from the living room of their borrowed home to a handful of stations around the country. ``Jim, I think this is probably the happiest day of my life,'' Mrs. Bakker said as the show began. Sporting her trademark heavy eye makeup, she began crying two minutes into the hourlong show. Bakker, the founder of PTL, left his television ministry in March 1987 in the midst of a sex and money scandal. He and his wife had not appeared on a television pulpit since January 1987. Today, Bakker told viewers and his supporters crowded into the house that his last television appearance was to break ground for the Crystal Palace Church at Heritage USA, the home of PTL. ``I believe that was the last straw for Satan,'' Bakker said. ``I think the devil was mad that something so beautiful was being built. ... I believe the devil said, `I have to smash Jim and Tammy Bakker.''' Bakker said he believes that church, which was designed to hold 30,000 people, still will be built. But since the Bakkers left the PTL organization, it has filed for protection under federal bankruptcy laws, and last month a bankruptcy judge ordered its assets sold to a Canadian businessman. Also last month, Bakker and a former top aide were indicted on charges including fraud and conspiracy. Bakker thanked a supporter who had donated the money to put him back on the air, and said the program would be carried by more stations next month. It is scheduled to be shown Monday through Friday. ``We bought time,'' Mrs. Bakker said. ``We had a certain amount of money and that's all the time we could buy, and it's not a lot of money, but it got us back on the air and we are so grateful.'' Bakker did not make any direct appeal for donations, in marked contrast to his old ```PTL Club'' show. He did give an address in Fort Mill, S.C., ``if you want to write us.'' Callers to a telephone number _ not toll-free _ shown throughout the show were asked to give their name, phone number and address but got no appeal for funds. The callers were invited to ask the Bakkers to pray for them. Bakker, who turned 49 today, said the program was being carried by television stations in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Albany, N.Y.; Akron and Canton, Ohio; Asheville, N.C.; and Louisiana. In Amsterdam, N.Y., near Albany, WOCD general manager Fred Wuenschel said the Bakkers paid ``the usual rate per hour'' to be on the station. He wouldn't say what that was. The station has a 30-day contract for the show. He said he will keep the show on ``as long as they keep paying.'' The only mention of Bakker's legal troubles came when the guest on the show, former PTL songwriter Mike Murdock, said he wrote one song in a lawyer's office. Murdock said he knew Bakker ``didn't know anything about lawyers.'' ``Oh no-o-o-o,'' Bakker said with a chuckle. Bakker said he had a message for ``hurting people'' and that viewers should keep their faith no matter what crisis they were facing. ``If Jim and Tammy can survive their holocaust of the last two years, then you can make it,'' Bakker said.
<relevant> PTL founders Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker returned to the television pulpit Monday for the first time in two years with an appeal for ``hurting people'' to keep the faith, but no direct pleas for donations. ``If Jim and Tammy can survive their holocaust of the last two years, then you can make it,'' said Bakker, who left PTL in March 1987 amid a sex-and-money scandal. ``The Jim and Tammy Show'' originated in the living room of the Bakkers' borrowed home in this Charlotte suburb. They said it was sent by satellite to a half-dozen stations in California, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Louisiana, with the couple's new ministry paying for air time. The hourlong telecast is scheduled Mondays through Fridays. ``We bought time,'' said Mrs. Bakker. ``We had a certain amount of money and that's all the time we could buy, and it's not a lot of money, but it got us back on the air and we are so grateful.'' In their prime at PTL, the Bakkers and their ``PTL Club'' could be seen on about 180 television stations. As in their old show, the Bakkers sat on a couch. Mrs. Bakker wore her trademark heavy eye makeup and broke into tears several times, the first just two minutes into their show. The couple made no direct appeal for funds, but gave an address and telephone number so viewers could request prayers. And the show's guest, former PTL songwriter Mike Murdock, gave Mrs. Bakker a card which he said he had been asked to deliver by a supporter. Mrs. Bakker said the card contained a $1,000 check. John Bland, a volunteer at Jim and Tammy Ministries, said Monday's show drew ``a beautiful response.'' ``A lot of people called in who said they were partners (supporters who gave $1,000 or more to PTL) and glad to see that they were back on TV,'' Bland said. The Bakkers' last appearance as television evangelists was in January 1987, two months before the scandal that drove them from PTL. They had left the air because Mrs. Bakker was receiving treatment for dependency on prescription drugs and for pneumonia, the couple said at the time. ``Jim, I think this is probably the happiest day of my life,'' Mrs. Bakker said as the show began. Bakker told viewers that his last television appearance was to break ground for the Crystal Palace Church at Heritage USA, the home of PTL. ``I believe that was the last straw for Satan,'' Bakker said. ``I think the devil was mad that something so beautiful was being built. ... I believe the devil said, `I have to smash Jim and Tammy Bakker.''' Bakker resigned from PTL following disclosure of his 1980 sexual encounter with a church secretary, Jessica Hahn, and that she had been paid for her silence. In June 1987, the ministry sought protection from creditors in bankruptcy court, and last month a judge approved the sale of PTL's chief asset, the Heritage USA theme park at Fort Mill, S.C. Also last month, Bakker and a top aide were indicted on charges they used PTL funds for private gain. But the only mention of his legal troubles during the show came when Murdock noted a song he said he wrote in a lawyer's office. Murdock said he knew Bakker ``didn't know anything about lawyers.'' ``Oh no-o-o-o,'' Bakker said with a pained chuckle. Fred Wuenschel, general manager WOCD in Amsterdam, N.Y., one of the stations broadcasting the program, said he would show it ``as long as they keep paying.'' He said the station has a 30-day contract for the show, but declined to say how much the Bakkers are paying except to say it was ``the usual rate per hour.''
<relevant> Evangelist Jimmy Swaggart says his television ministry will end this month unless he receives an influx of donations to overcome ``pornographers'' who are trying to knock him off the air. ``If for whatever reason this week, you close the door in my face or you pass me by, ... Feb. 26 will be the final telecast for this ministry,'' Swaggart said in his taped television program distributed for broadcast this past weekend. ``It's either the pornographers or us. They will have their way and eliminate Jimmy Swaggart from television. That's what they wanted to do,'' Swaggart said. Swaggart did not give any figures of how much money he needed. A guard who answered the phone Sunday said he could not contact Swaggart, and a message left at his office this morning seeking further comment was not immediately returned. In the latest edition of Penthouse magazine, a New Orleans stripper said she performed sex acts for Swaggart while he watched. The allegations leveled by Catherine Mary Kampen, strongly denied by Swaggart, were similar to those of Debra Murphree, a New Orleans prostitute, that led to Swaggart's ouster last year from the Assemblies of God. In a tearful confession to his congregation last February, Swaggart said he had sinned, but did not reveal specifics. He was defrocked by the Assemblies after refusing to stay away from the pulpit for at least one year. Swaggart has not released any hard figures on the ministry's financial problems. However, in the past year there have been layoffs at the ministries, cancellation of his weekly television show by three major cable networks, and an exodus of students from Jimmy Swaggart Bible College, which many faculty members left to avoid being defrocked with Swaggart.
<relevant> A year after being disgraced by charges of sexual misconduct, evangelist Jimmy Swaggart portrays his plight as a life-and-death struggle against ``pornographers'' who are trying to topple his TV ministry. ``This is the crisis point in this ministry. Satan has come at us with his mightiest blow. He has not succeeded. He will not succeed,'' Swaggart said last weekend on his hourlong television program. Swaggart said that without an influx of donations, his television ministry will leave the air Feb. 26 _ a year and five days after he tearfully confessed from the pulpit to an unspecified sin. It's been a long year for Swaggart's ministry, which had seemed to be on top of the evangelical world after the fall of PTL's Jim Bakker. Shortly after Swaggart's confession to his congregation, New Orleans prostitute Debra Murphree said he had paid her to pose nude for him, a claim she repeated for a Penthouse magazine article. Swaggart originally agreed not to preach for three months, in accordance with a recommendation from the Assemblies of God state council, but resigned from the Pentecostal denomination after national leaders demanded that he stay away from the pulpit at least a year. At the same time Swaggart resigned, the Assemblies dismissed him. Although the ministry refused to reveal specifics of its ensuing financial plight as donations dropped, Swaggart held a telethon to raise money to stay afloat; laid off employees from his ministry, one of Baton Rouge's major employers; called off construction plans; and put the ministry's jet up for sale. Once the highest-rated television preacher with viewership estimated at more than 2 million, Swaggart was dropped from three major cable television networks. His Family Worship Center, which seats 5,000 and was filled to the rafters for his confession, now displays signs informing worshipers that its large balcony is closed. The Assemblies of God said it would revoke credentials of ministers who remained part of Swaggart's organization, and at least two churches were formed in the Baton Rouge area by ministers who left Swaggart. Many faculty left Swaggart's Bible college, enrollment dropped, and some graduates last spring wondered aloud if their diplomas could be changed to eliminate reference to the evangelist. Nevertheless, around Thanksgiving, Swaggart told his congregation that the ministry had turned the corner. His television program began broadcasts to China in January. Throughout, Swaggart remained mum about Murphree's claim. But he broke his silence last month when a New Orleans stripper, Catherine Mary Kampen, made similar allegations, and, like Murphree, sold her story to Penthouse. ``There is not one shred of truth to these allegations. I have never met or seen this woman,'' he said. The ministry promised a libel lawsuit and said it had evidence Kampen made up the allegations, though she and Penthouse said they stood by the story. ``This is a crime. It is a filth that must be eradicated from the land,'' Swaggart said during a Jan. 30 news conference in which he declared war on ``pornographers.'' Two days later, Swaggart warned his congregation that another plot to subvert his ministry might be in the works, ``as preposterous as this one. ... If you have enough money, you can get anyone to say anything.'' Then came the threat a week ago to halt the TV ministry unless enough donations come in. On Wednesday night, Swaggart said his followers were responding to his plea for money, ``but I don't want to shout too much because there are newsmen here and they might think we're rich.'' Swaggart said he had met several times with ``one of the world's foremost lawyers.'' For now, Swaggart says his followers must decide. ``You are making a choice today, a choice between the pornographers that are working more diligently than you will ever know ... or it's us. It's either the devil or darkness or it's God and light.''
<relevant> Heritage Ministries, the evangelical remains of the collapsed PTL ministry, says it needs half a million dollars in donations by March 1 to prevent the cable network from falling apart. Heritage Ministries President Sam Johnson appealed to viewers of ``Heritage Ministries Today'' on Monday to preserve the ministry, which is based at the Christian retreat and theme park known as Heritage USA. He said Heritage Ministries owes $492,600 to its 76 affiliate stations for air time. ``We must have all of this money in by March 1 or we will lose these stations,' Johnson said. Johnson said in an interview that donations have lagged because of uncertainty over the ministry's future. Stephen Mernick, a Toronto businessman who bought Heritage USA earlier this year in U.S. Bankruptcy Court, has refused to say what he plans to do with the theme park or what place Heritage Ministries has in his plans. The Internal Revenue Service revoked PTL's tax-exempt status in 1988, citing excessive salaries paid to former PTL leader Jim Bakker. Heritage Ministries was formed as a non-profit entity devoted to religious broadcasting.
<irrelevant> The judge in the PTL bankruptcy case called for stricter scrutiny of religious groups in newspaper interviews in which he described former PTL leader Jim Bakker as a ``little, sawed-off runt.'' Rufus Reynolds, who retired Saturday as a U.S. bankruptcy judge, told the Greensboro News &amp; Record that television ministries are ``wide open'' for mismanagement or corruption. He also said he received death threats while he was handling the case. ``I think Congress should pass a very strong act forcing the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) ... to make them comply with an accounting,'' Reynolds said. ``We have all kinds of laws protecting consumers. Religion is just another consumer item, just the same as selling soap or washing powders or aspirin.'' In a separate interview with The Charlotte Observer, the 81-year-old Reynolds said he was amazed at the response to the travails that brought down Bakker's evangelistic empire. ``What puzzled me was why people were interested in that little, sawed-off runt,'' Reynolds said. The PTL founder Sunday criticized the judge's comments. ``I am shocked to find Judge Reynolds so prejudiced toward us, and to hear of him making fun of us and the PTL partners,'' Bakker said in a statement released by one of his attorneys. ``He should not have tried the PTL case with these feelings against us.'' The interviews were published Sunday, the day after Reynolds' tenure in the bankruptcy case ended with his retirement. The ministry filed for protection under federal bankruptcy laws in June 1987, three months after Bakker resigned from PTL amid a sex-and-money scandal. Two months ago, Reynolds ordered Bakker, his wife, Tammy, and former aide David Taggart to repay PTL nearly $7.7 million in benefits he found to be excessive. Last month, he approved the sale of PTL assets to a Canadian businessman. It was also last month that a federal grand jury indicted Bakker and former top aide Richard Dortch on criminal fraud and conspiracy charges, accusing them of diverting more than $4 million in PTL money for their own benefit. Bakker is scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in Charlotte on Jan. 17. Upon his retirement, Reynolds told the Observer that he left the PTL case discouraged and somewhat cynical. For the first time as a bankruptcy judge, Reynolds was guarded by U.S. marshals. He said the FBI investigated death threats. ``I didn't know Christians could be so critical. They would just chew me out,'' Reynolds said. When a woman called the bankruptcy court in Columbia to find out if he was a Christian, ``I said, `You tell her I was when I started this case, but now I plead the Fifth Amendment.''' In talking with the News &amp; Record, Reynolds said he would like to see closer government regulation of all not-for-profit corporations, including churches. ``They're handling (money) the way they damn please. They mold a religion to fit their pocketbook,'' Reynolds said. He dismissed arguments that stricter regulation of broadcast ministries might violate First Amendment guarantees of freedom of speech and worship. ``The First Amendment has no relation to accounting for money,'' Reynolds said. ``When you go stealing other people's money, you can't say, `The Bible excuses me. I've been forgiven by the Lord.' That doesn't apply.''
<irrelevant> The judge who presided over PTL's bankruptcy proceedings said he received threats during the case, and couldn't understand why Jim Bakker's followers ``were interested in that little, sawed-off runt.'' Rufus Reynolds, who retired Saturday at age 81 as a U.S. bankruptcy judge, was guarded by U.S. marshals during the bankruptcy proceedings as the FBI investigated the threats. ``They didn't say, `I'm going to kill you.' They said, `The Lord's going to take you,''' Reynolds said. ``I didn't know Christians could be so critical. They would just chew me out.'' When a woman called the bankruptcy court in Columbia, S.C., to find out if he was a Christian, ``I said, `You tell her I was when I started this case, but now I plead the Fifth Amendment.''' Reynolds said television ministries are ``wide open'' for mismanagement or corruption. ``I think Congress should pass a very strong act forcing the IRS ... to make them comply with an accounting,'' Reynolds said. ``We have all kinds of laws protecting consumers. Religion is just another consumer item, just the same as selling soap or washing powders or aspirin.'' Reynolds also said he was amazed at the response to the travails that brought down Bakker's evangelistic empire. ``What puzzled me was why people were interested in that little, sawed-off runt,'' Reynolds said. Bakker, who resigned from PTL in 1987, responded Sunday, saying: ``I am shocked to find Judge Reynolds so prejudiced toward us, and to hear of him making fun of us and the PTL partners. ... ``He should not have tried the PTL case with these feelings against us.'' The ministry filed for protection under federal bankruptcy laws in June 1987, three months after Bakker resigned from PTL. Two months ago, Reynolds ordered Bakker, his wife, Tammy, and former aide David Taggart to repay PTL nearly $7.7 million in benefits he found to be excessive. Last month, he approved the sale of PTL assets to a Canadian businessman. Also last month, a federal grand jury indicted Bakker and former top aide Richard Dortch on charges including fraud and conspiracy, accusing them of diverting more than $4 million in PTL money for their own benefit. Two other former PTL officials were indicted. Upon his retirement, Reynolds sand he left the PTL case discouraged and somewhat cynical. From the beginning, Reynolds said he believed the only way to save PTL was to keep it intact as a religious operation. ``It's a one-purpose center, a religious center _ a wonderful idea,'' Reynolds said. ``If Bakker had employed reasonable business principles, just on an average, they wouldn't owe a dime.'' Reynolds said he was disappointed at the outcome of the case. ``When you've had 40,000 cases _ at least; when you've had success in lots of them, the majority of them; when you take the one most publicized, best known, and you make a failure, you can't feel very good. It's that simple,'' Reynolds said. ``I'm going to take a bath and forget about it,'' Reynolds said. ``Someone asked me what was the best part of the whole case. I said, `Getting out.'''
<irrelevant> Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev slowly may be winning converts to his policy of glasnost, or openness, but whether the word merits inclusion in a U.S. dictionary remains under debate. The honor likely to be accorded such all-American terms as ``televangelist'' and ``computer virus'' in upcoming Merriam-Webster dictionaries has so far been denied the word describing Gorbachev's reforms. ``It is still most often found in either italics or quotes and to us that means it has not been completely Americanized,'' said James G. Lowe, senior editor at Springfield-based G.C. Merriam Inc. ``When reporters and writers start using it without explaining what it means it will be ready for consideration for the dictionary.'' The term ``computer virus'' came into wide use too late for this year's book, but it is an almost sure bet for inclusion in the next addendum to the company's unabridged dictionary, Lowe said, thanks to a graduate student who this autumn unleashed a ``virus'' that clogged university and military computers and exposed the vulnerability of computer banks to infection. ``Televangelist,'' ``colorization,'' as used to describe the tinting of old black-and-white films, and ``zap,'' when used to describe what happens to a television commercial when a viewer switches to another channel by remote control, are also likely candidates for the unabridged dictionary, he said. Monday was a holiday within a holiday for many parents who had the day off but sent their children back to school. The federal and state New Year's Day holiday was observed by many school systems, but it was back to the books for students in public schools here. ``I don't want to go,'' said Joe Alexander, 14, as he boarded a school bus bound for Attucks Junior High. ``It's not fair for us to go on a federal holiday.'' A lot of students _ and parents _ apparently had the same opinion, as the absentee rate shot up to near 40 percent at some schools. Overall, attendance was termed ``fair'' by officials. Frank Tout, principal at Howe High School, estimated that between 60 percent and 65 percent of the school's 1,609 students were in class. Although Christmas vacation started earlier at city schools than at other school systems, another day off would have been nice, most students agreed. ``I don't like it,'' said Jesse Harper, 12, another Attucks student. ``My dad is staying home today and I wanted to stay with him.'' But some were more than ready to return. ``I wanted to go to school today,'' said Missy Frazier, 14, an eighth-grader at Attucks. ``I get bored at home.''
<irrelevant> Jim Bakker returned to the TV pulpit with his wife for the first time in two years, and blamed his downfall and subsequent indictment on Satan, not on PTL's sex-and-money scandal. ``I believe the devil said, `I have to smash Jim and Tammy Bakker,''' he told viewers Monday on the first broadcast of ``The Jim and Tammy Show.'' Bakker and his wife, Tammy Faye, made no direct pitch for contributions Monday but on this morning's show Bakker promised a book in exchange for donations. The hourlong program is scheduled to run five days a week. ``We don't want to raise funds on this program every day,'' Bakker said today, adding that ``for everyone who sends $100, or $25 or more, I want you to have a copy of this `Crisis Book of Scripture.''' The book contains biblical quotations that can help readers deal with life crises such as divorce, he said. ``We're still believing God will restore Heritage (USA) totally and back to the lifetime members who built it,'' Bakker said. The broadcasts originated in the living room of the Bakkers' borrowed home and was sent by satellite to a half-dozen stations, mostly cable, in California, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Louisiana, Bakker said. ``Jim, I think this is probably the happiest day of my life,'' Mrs. Bakker said as the show began Monday. She wore her trademark heavy eye makeup and broke into tears two minutes into the hourlong show. Bakker, 49, and a former top associate were indicted last month on charges of diverting $4 million in PTL money for their benefit. The Bakkers had not preached together on television since January 1987. Two months later, allegations surfaced of his 1980 sexual encounter with church secretary Jessica Hahn. Bakker said his last television show at PTL featured the groundbreaking for the Crystal Palace Church, a proposed 30,000-seat church at PTL's Heritage USA. The church was never built and a federal bankruptcy court last month approved the sale of Heritage USA to a Canadian businessman. Bakker, however, holding a drawing of the glass church, said he had not given up. ``I believe that someday we will still build it,'' Bakker said. ``I believe that was the last straw for Satan. I think the devil was mad that something so beautiful was being built.'' Callers to a ``prayer line'' telephone number Monday _ not toll-free _ were asked to give their name and prayer request but were not asked directly for funds. Bakker frequently referred to the family's recent experience. ``You can make it,'' he said. ``If Jim and Tammy can survive their holocaust of two years, I know God will help you to survive. There's times when I did not want to live. There's times when I prayed to die. But I know this: God was always there.'' It is unknown yet how many people watched the show. ``We honestly don't know how many may be carrying it or portions of it today, because it simply went up on the satellite,'' said the Bakker's attorney, Jim Toms. One city Bakker named as receiving Monday's broadcast did not. Steve Burleson, president of Asheville Christian Cable Network, said he didn't carry the program and hasn't decided whether to televise it. ``I'm all for presenting the gospel of Jesus Christ, but I'm simply not interested in another wall-to-wall begging program,'' he said. ``And I think that's the consensus of the viewers here.''
<irrelevant> Television evangelist Jim Bakker appealed for money Tuesday, the second day of his new show being broadcast to a half-dozen stations. But the retired judge who ruled over the PTL bankruptcy case said Bakker could not handle the millions of dollars raised in his first show. In his second broadcast since he was forced off the air two years ago in a sex-and-money scandal, Bakker asked listeners to send in ``$100, or $25 or more'' in return for a ``Crisis Book of Scripture.'' Bakker told viewers he did not want to raise funds every day, but expressed the belief the Heritage USA complex that was recently sold to a Canadian businessman would be restored to the PTL members who paid for it. Meanwhile, on ``CBS This Morning,'' Rufus Reynolds, the judge who supervised the $65 million sale of PTL's assets, said his ``stomach cringed'' at the way Bakker and his wife, Tammy Faye, handled the money he raised in the name of religion. ``They just wasted a lot of it,'' he said. ``Why take religious money collected for one purpose and throw it away for another? That's the whole picture.'' The broadcasts of the new ``Jim and Tammy'' show originated in the living room of the Bakkers' borrowed home and were sent by satellite to a six stations, mostly cable, in California, Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania and Louisiana, Bakker said. Bakker, 49, and a former top associate were indicted last month on charges of diverting $4 million in PTL money for their benefit. A trial date is expected to be set Jan. 17. The Bakkers had not preached together on television since January 1987. Two months later, allegations surfaced of his 1980 sexual encounter with church secretary Jessica Hahn, forcing Bakker to leave the PTL ministry. Bakker said one of his supporters donated money to put him back on the air for the first month. Mrs. Bakker said Tuesday she did not think daily fund-raising would be necessary. ``I believe God is going to start touching people's hearts,'' she said. ``I believe that we're not going to have to tell the people, that God will tell the people.'' But in the interview, the judge who ordered the Bakkers in a civil suit to repay the ministry $7.7 million in excessive benefits said Jim Bakker was ``not a very good businessman.'' Reynolds, who retired as a bankruptcy judge Saturday, said Bakker once chartered a plane for $130,000 ``just to take him out to California _ kept it out there two weeks. Things like that. Just money that you wouldn't think about spending, he did.''
</top>
<top>
<num> 82
<title> Genetic Engineering
<relevant> Mike has lived twice as long as might have been expected when doctors diagnosed his AIDS. Dan Turner and Cristofer Shihar had one chance in five of seeing 1984. They don't know why they've survived what has been a death sentence for more than 45,000 Americans, but say it may be a matter of attitude. ``A lot of people don't die of the disease, they die because they give up,'' said Mike, a 34-year-old Chicagoan who was diagnosed with acquired immune deficienty syndrome in January 1984. He asked that his last name be withheld. According to Judith Wiker, a Chicago holistic therapist who says she has counseled hundreds of clients with AIDS or AIDS-related problems, Mike is one of many people with the disease who are well enough to feel and act normal. ``There are a lot of healthy people running around with AIDS,'' she said. Scientists are trying to determine just why some people have survived as long as 10 years with AIDS. The federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta is studying 119 people known to have lived with it for three or more years. ``Is the virus somehow different?'' asks Ann M. Hardy, a CDC epidemiologist now at the National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Md. ``Is it something in their immune system?'' Does survival time hinge on the mildness or severity of the infections that attack people with AIDS? Or could the key really be a ``lifestyle-psychosocial type of thing'' _ a positive attitude and emotional support? All of these possibilities are now being studied, either by the CDC or in studies funded by the National Institutes of Health. For the purposes of the CDC's 2-year-old study, long-term survivors were defined as people who lived at least three years after being diagnosed. Unlike the estimated hundreds of thousands of Americans who are infected with the AIDS virus but do not have symptoms, long-term survivors actually have battled one or more ailments that define acquired immune deficiency syndrome _ including Kaposi's sarcoma, pneumonia, damaged immune systems and severe weight loss. Most long-term survivors are white homosexual men in their 30s whose main or only symptom is Kaposi's sarcoma, the skin cancer that was rare before AIDS became an epidemic, CDC data indicates. ``The major issue people are interested in is what way the immune response for the long-term survivor is different than in the short-term survivor,'' said Dr. Henry Masur, deputy chief of critical care medicine at the the Clinical Center of the NIH in Bethesda, Md. ``With any disease, whether it's cancer or pneumonia, in a healthy person, some people get sick very quickly and die and other people survive much longer. With breast cancer or colon cancer, some people will be dead within a few months and some people will go for 30 years,'' Masur said. For Mike, an accountant, three years of chemotherapy kept the skin sores of Kaposi's sarcoma at bay. He then began treatment with the drug AZT, now called zidovudine, which prolongs the lives of many with AIDS. Mike, who considers himself ``fairly lucky,'' said his only current health problem is mild leg pain. ``I'm basically as normal as they get. Nobody would know, if they saw me on the street, that I had been diagnosed with AIDS.'' Turner, 42, of San Francisco, was diagnosed with Kaposi's in February 1982, before most Americans _ including doctors _ had heard of AIDS. ``I do believe one can live with AIDS and strike up a bargain and co-exist with the virus, as we do with other viruses,'' said Turner. He underwent chemotherapy, a year of acupuncture, took megadoses of Vitamin C for a while, has taken zidovudine intermittently since early 1988 and still gets alpha-interferon, a genetically engineered anti-cancer drug. ``I go to the gym regularly, and I try to maintain my weight and my energy level,'' said Turner, who writes and performs music. ``A friend and I have just finished writing a movie script, which we hope to sell.'' Shihar, 38, of Los Angeles, was diagnosed with Kaposi's in November 1982, and said he's done ``just about the opposite of all the recommended treatments'' but his illness went into remission anyway. ``I would love to say it was all very spiritual, but I was in remission before I became spiritual,'' said Shihar, who works for Northern Lights Alternatives, a New York-based education and support organization for people with AIDS. ``I think the one thing I hear from people I know who have survived is they're real stubborn.'' Ms. Wiker believes ``there is a certain kind of person that is a survivor with AIDS. That kind of personality is one that starts living in the moment, a person that is letting go of their past feelings and fears ... and they're letting go of future projections about death.'' That theory is being tested in a federally funded study at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, where 450 people infected with the AIDS virus are being tracked for five years to determine whether their emotional state influences their resistance to the illness. ``Most people would like to believe they have control over this, and if they remain optimistic and cheerful it will help,'' said Dr. Jack M. Gorman, associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and principal investigator in the study. ``And we certainly want to encourage people to remain optimistic and cheerful, but we don't really know if it makes a difference or not, and that's what we're trying to see,'' he added. Regardless of psychological factors, survival prospects continually improve in newly diagnosed AIDS cases, thanks to drug treatments such as zidovudine and an aerosol form of pentamidine, a medication that fights the rare type of pneumonia that has been highly fatal to AIDS patients. As recently as two years ago, 80 percent of people with AIDS were expected to die within 24 months, but that has changed dramatically, said Dr. Nathaniel Pier, a New York City physician with a large number of AIDS patients. The CDC says it can't currently estimate AIDS victims' average survival. ``As of November 1988, we can assist somebody to stay alive and healthy for two years, with the current therapy,'' Piers said. ``And a great deal may occur in two years. We've seen an enormous change from 1986 to 1988. ``Many people being diagnosed now may benefit from breakthroughs that will totally change the surface of the disease.''
<relevant> The Soviet Union plans to put a huge telescope in orbit and to set up a biotechnology laboratory with an American chemical company, Soviet scientists said Saturday. Vadim T. Ivanov, director of the Shemiakin Institute for Bioorganic Chemistry, said he plans to sign an agreement with the Monsanto Co., in St. Louis, to establish a biotechnology laboratory in the Soviet Union. Ivanov is a member of a delegation of high-ranking Soviet researchers attending the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Research at the biotechnology laboratory would focus on nervous system biology, growth hormones to boost livestock production and help underdeveloped humans, and genetic engineering to make crops resist pests, salt and drought, Ivanov said. Soviet scientists also hope to place an optical telescope with a 10-meter mirror in orbit by about the year 2000, although the proposal doesn't yet have government approval, said Nikolay S. Kardashev, deputy director of the Soviet Institute for Space Research. The Soviet telescope would be far larger than the $1.5 billion Hubble Space Telescope, which the United States plans to launch from a space shuttle in February 1990. It has a mirror diameter of 2.4 meters, or about 94.5 inches. Kardashev also said that despite some earlier problems, his country's Phobos 2 space probe, launched last year toward an encounter with the Martian moon Phobos, seems to be working well as it heads toward the red planet. ``We hope it's OK _ no problems,'' he said. The Soviets earlier lost all contact with a similar probe, Phobos 1. This is the second year a Soviet delegation has visited the annual meeting of the AAAS, which publishes the journal Science and bills itself as the leading general scientific group in the United States. Some 10,000 scientists are expected at the meeting, which concludes Thursday. The Soviet scientists cited numerous examples of U.S.-Soviet scientific cooperation in each of their fields, and expressed hope for more. ``It's very good improving international cooperation,'' Kardashev said. Soviet scientists also want to boost cooperation with U.S. earthquake experts, especially in fault-ridden California, following the devastating quake in Armenia, said Konstantin Frolov, who headed the Soviet delegation. Frolov, vice president of the USSR Academy of Science, also said it was unlikely the death toll from the earthquake exceeded 30,000. ``Nobody knows now absolutely perfectly how many'' died in the Dec. 7 earthquake, but ``25,000 or 30,000 may be so,'' Frolov said. For weeks after the 6.9-magnitude quake in northwest Armenia, Soviet officials estimated the death toll at 55,000. Late last month they downgraded it to about 25,000 after nearly that many bodies were recovered from collapsed buildings. However, American engineers returning from an Armenia visit said Jan. 4 said thousands of bodies never will be found and said they thought probably 60,000 died during the quake. ``Sixty-thousand _ this is too much,' Frolov said. Frolov, often speaking through an interpreter, called the Armenian quakes ``a very sad and difficult situation,'' and said the Soviets want to learn how to speed post-disaster rescue and relief efforts, protect against earthquake damage, better predict temblors, and improve building methods. Ivanov, citing the Soviets' interest in cooperative biotechnology research, said the joint Soviet-Monsanto lab would be located at his institute and that Monsanto would help equip it. Members of both organizations would be on a board overseeing the lab, he added. Details haven't been worked out about how profits would be shared from any products developed at the lab, but ``patents should be joint patents,'' he added.
<relevant> A clotting protein made through genetic engineering appears promising for people with the bleeding disease hemophilia and may provide an AIDS-free alternative to current treatments, researchers report. In a report in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Gilbert C. White II and others from the University of North Carolina described the first use of the genetically engineered protein in two people. One of them received 44 doses, while the other got 35. The researchers said the treatment appeared to work well. ``We think it will be a blessing _ truly virus-free and truly safe,'' said Alan Brownstein, executive director of the Hemophilia Foundation. Hemophiliacs lack a protein, called factor VIII, that is essential for making blood clots. As a result, they frequently suffer internal bleeding and must receive infusions of clotting protein derived from human blood. During the early 1980s, these treatments were often tainted with the AIDS virus. In 1984, after that was discovered, manufacturers began heating factor VIII to kill the virus. The strategy greatly reduced the problem but was not foolproof. However, many experts believe that adding detergents and other refinements to the purification process has made natural factor VIII virtually free of AIDS. To produce clotting protein that is indisputedly free of AIDS and other viruses, the North Carolina researchers inserted the human gene that controls production of factor VIII into animal cells. These cells then made the protein. The National Hemophilia Foundation estimates that about 60 percent of the nation's 20,000 hemophiliacs are infected with the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. It is not known how many of those people will eventually get the disease. Currently, only about 900 hemophiliacs have been reported to have AIDS _ slightly more than 1 percent of the nation's 83,000 AIDS cases. Among all AIDS virus carriers, about 20 percent and 30 percent can be expected to contract the disease within five years, according to Surgeon General C. Everett Koop. Their longer term prospects are not yet known.
<relevant> Researchers today reported the first ``very promising'' evidence outside a test tube that an experimental new treatment will slow the lethal spread of the AIDS virus inside the body. The medicine, CD4, apparently works as a decoy, mimicking the blood cells that the virus usually infects and kills. In a report in today's journal Nature, researchers reported that the treatment dramatically reduced the level of virus in monkeys infected with the simian version of the AIDS virus. ``This is the first evidence in vivo (in a living animal) that it has anti-viral effects with chronic administration in a relevant animal model,'' said Dr. Robert Schooley of Massachusetts General Hospital. ``That still leaves the question of whether or not there will be parallel positive effects in humans,'' he said. ``But it does increase the enthusiasm and the likelihood one would push on with more extensive studies.'' Recently, Schooley and others began testing CD4 on people infected with HIV, the human AIDS virus, but the results will not be known for weeks. ``This approach looks very promising for AIDS,'' said Dr. Norman L. Letvin, senior author of the monkey study. The treatment cannot wipe out the virus when hidden inside the body's cells. However, if it works as researchers hope, it will absorb loose virus that is roaming the bloodstream looking for new cells to take over. The latest research, conducted at the Harvard-affiliated New England Regional Primate Research Center, suggests that CD4 will do just that. It showed that when given to infected rhesus monkeys, the drug dramatically reduced levels of the virus. The monkeys were infected with simian immunodeficiency virus of macaques, or SIV, a close relative of the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome in humans. Monkeys that catch SIV grow sick and die of an illness that closely mirrors human AIDS. Even if the treatment works as well in people as it does in monkeys, it will not cure AIDS. But it might make life better for victims of the virus. ``What one would predict on the basis of these monkey studies is that if the drug is well tolerated in humans, there is every reason to hope that patients should live significantly longer and feel significantly better,'' Letvin said. Researchers tested CD4 on six monkeys. Two were healthy, and the drug had no adverse effects on them. The four others had been infected for more than a year and had varying stages of disease. ``The animals showed a very dramatic response when we looked at our ability to isolate virus from them during and immediately following treatment,'' Letvin said. The infected animals received daily injections of CD4 for 50 days. Virus in their blood and bone marrow largely disappeared within two weeks of the start of treatment and returned after the treatment stopped. The animals' marrow, which makes blood cells, also regained strength during the treatment, an effect that Letvin said was surprising. The sickest of the four died of severe anemia after the treatment stopped. Letvin said that anemia is sometimes caused by the disease, but the researchers could not rule out the possibility that it was also triggered by the treatment. CD4 is a natural molecule that's found on the surface of some blood cells. Among these are the chief victims of the AIDS virus _ scavenger cells called macrophages and helper T cells that coordinate the body's response to infections. When the AIDS virus gets into the body, it is attracted to cells that carry CD4. The virus locks onto the CD4 and worms its way inside. Then it takes over the cell, eventually turning into a factory to make more virus. The new drug is a soluble form of CD4 made through genetic engineering. Theoretically, it provides so many targets for the virus that it is lured harmlessly away from uninfected cells. Letvin's monkey research and Schooley's human testing is being done with a form of CD4 made by Biogen Inc., a biotechnology firm in Cambridge, Mass. Human testing has also begun with CD4 made by Genentech in South San Francisco.
<relevant> A federal judge is being asked to block the first application of genetic engineering using an animal virus gene in the experimental treatment of human cancer. The request is contained in a U.S. District Court lawsuit filed Monday by the Foundation on Economic Trends and its president, Jeremy Rifkin. It asks for an injunction to block plans by researchers at the National Institute of Health to use a rat virus to manipulate a gene in an experimental treatment of melanoma, a virulent and often fatal skin cancer. The suit claims that the institute's Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, which reviews human genetic engineering experiments, approved the cancer therapy without conducting proper public hearings. As the suit was being filed in downtown Washington on Monday, Rifkin and others in the foundation met with the 25-member committee at the institute's offices in Maryland for a heated discussion of Rifkin's proposal that the NIH be required to form a citizen's committee to evaluate dangers involved in human genetic engineering. Members of the institute's advisory group voted 23-0, with two members abstaining, against forming the citizens committee. Rifkin vowed to ``come back again and again and again'' with his proposal. The lawsuit asks the court to block the first formal attempt ever to insert a foreign gene into human beings. The suit targets research approved earlier this month to treat melanoma patients with a type of white blood cell, called a tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL), that has been genetically altered. TIL cells are developed by the body in small numbers to fight the growth of melanoma tumors. Three NIH researchers, Steven A. Rosenberg, R. Michael Blaese and W. French Anderson, showed in earlier work that TIL cells can be used to battle cancer by taking them from a patient's tumor, growing them in large numbers in the laboratory, and then reinserting them into the patient. In results published in December, the technique was at least partially successful in 12 of 20 patients. To understand why TIL therapy works for some, but not others, the scientists want to trace the white blood cells after they are returned to the patient. In order to do this, the researchers want to mark the cells with a bacterial gene that produces a resistance to neomycin, an antibiotic. In this way, cells from the patient's tumors or blood stream could be identified and movement of the cells into the tumors could be monitored. But in order to get the gene of the bacteria into the white blood cells, the scientists proposed to use a rat leukemia retrovirus. It was the use of this virus that triggered the lawsuit. The study proposed that the experimental therapy be used on 10 melanoma patients with a life expectancy of just 90 days, and that it not be used on other patients until the technique is re-evaluated. The research proposal underwent seven months of reviews, including hearings by NIH committees, the Food and Drug Administration and a congressional committee. On Jan. 18, James B. Wyngaarden, director of the NIH, gave final approval. In their lawsuit, Rifkin and the Foundation on Economic Trends say the approval was not proper because a subcommittee review of the proposal was not conducted with public notice and public participation, and that final approval by the full committee was by a mailed ballot, instead of in a public hearing. A court clerk said the case has been assigned to the court of U.S. District Judge John G. Penn. No hearing had been scheduled Monday, but the clerk said it would probably be sometime this week.
<irrelevant> A panel of independent and drug industry scientists began today trying to hasten the process for approving new drugs to treat cancer and AIDS, a task its chairman says must balance patient safety against the need for speedy treatment. ``While safety and efficacy must remain of paramount importance in permitting the use of new drugs, it is also critical that the Food and Drug Administration's regulatory procedures be such as to not unduly hinder the rapid transfer of new agents to patients with cancer and AIDS,'' said Dr. Armand Hammer, chairman of the President's Cancer Panel, which appointed the drug study panel. Hammer said the panel of experts has been asked by President-elect Bush to review current drug approval procedures and determine whether the regulatory processes governing cancer and AIDS drugs should be different from the processes governing development of drugs for diseases that are not life-threatening. Speaking to reporters after his address to the panel meeting at the National Institutes of Health, Hammer said he believes the approval process for cancer and AIDS drugs should be shortened from the current period, which varies from two to three years, to less than one year. ``We're not going to sacrifice safety and speed,'' he said. ``We're going to combine safety and speed.'' Hammer said the FDA's recent announcement of new streamlined procedures to move drug approvals more quickly are inadequate, though he did not elaborate. However, he said, the involvement of leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies on the study panel will provide valuable insight into the approval process. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the AIDS coordinator at the National Institutes of Health, said ``extraordinary'' progress has already been made in AIDS research, though no cure has been found and only one drug has been approved for treatment of AIDS _ AZT, which has been shown to prolong the lives of certain AIDS patients. ``There is a lot of despair out there, and that's understandable because of the terrible scourge of this disease,'' he told panelists. He said scientists are ``cautiously optimistic'' that they will develop a drug or combination of drugs within the next few years to prolong the lives of AIDS victims. However, he said, there is unlikely that a single drug will be developed that cures the disease.
<irrelevant> Only one American worker in 100 was tested for drug use last year, the government said Wednesday in announcing a study that sharply reduced previous estimates of how many employers conduct such tests. For job applicants, the chance of being tested was four times higher than for workers already on the job, the Labor Department survey of 7,500 employers showed. The survey, conducted last summer, found that only 3 percent of all employers had drug-testing programs. Together, those companies employed 20 percent of American workers. Just 7 percent of employers offered some type of drug counseling or other employee-assistance program. In all, 31 percent of workers were covered by these efforts. The survey found no rush to begin testing programs at establishments that don't have them now. Only 4 percent of employers said they were considering launching a testing program in the next year; just 3 percent said they might create employee-assistance programs. Those numbers were sharply lower than past estimates of the prevalence of drug-testing programs. A 1986 survey of 492 organizations by the Employment Management Association said 20.9 percent reported having testing programs. A Michigan State University study that year said 43 percent of employers who were not testing for drugs were considering doing so. Labor Department researchers, asked about the sharply lower numbers in the their study, said the government's larger sample size should make the new estimates the most accurate yet. The study did not include government workers, many of whom are subject to drug testing under state and federal policies that are the focus of dozens of legal challenges nationwide. The Labor Department said no figures were available on the number of public workers subject to drug testing. As to who is tested in the private sector, the 7,500 employers told the Labor Department researchers that 953,000 workers had been tested in the previous 12 months, compared to 3.9 million job applicants. In all, the report said that ``about 85 percent of establishments with testing programs targeted job applicants while 64 percent focused on current employees. ... Employers with testing programs appear to place a high priority on keeping potential drug problems out of the workplace.'' Studies have estimated that employers lose more than $8 billion a year in wasted productivity because of drug use. Of the estimated 953,000 workers tested for drug use, the survey said that 9 percent had tested positive. Of the applicants tested, 12 percent were positive. Researchers cautioned against taking those figures as representative of the rate of drug use, because such a small proportion of employees test for drugs and because so much testing is performed on suspected drug users. Indeed, about two-thirds of employers conducting tests did them only on workers suspected of drug use, while one-fourth had programs that subjected all employees to possible testing. Workforce size was by far the biggest factor in determining whether an employer had a drug-testing program. Of the nation's largest establishments, those with 1,000 employees or more, 43 percent tested for drugs while 76 percent offered counseling or some other form of assistance. But only about 2 percent of the smallest establishments, those with fewer than 50 workers, had testing programs; 9 percent had employee-assistance programs. A breakdown by industry found the highest rate of positive test results, about 20 percent, among employees in wholesale and retail trade. That industry also had the highest rate of positive test results among applicants, 17 percent for wholesale trade and 24 percent for the retail sector. The lowest rate of positive test results among employees was in transportation, 5.6 percent, a statistic influenced by mandatory testing in many sectors of the industry. Nearly 10 percent of applicants for transportation jobs tested positive for drugs, the study found. The rate of positive test results among applicants was lowest, at 5.5 percent, in communications and public utilities. Nearly 8 percent of workers in those industries who were checked tested positive for drugs. Mining, communications and public utilities, and transportation employers were most likely to have drug-testing programs, partly because of regulatory requirements, the study said. Least likely to have testing programs were retail trade, service and construction establishments.
<irrelevant> Grease-gobbling germs that eat themselves to death while cleaning drains are the secret weapons of a fledgling franchise business that bills itself as an ``HMO for restaurants.'' Bio-Care Inc., which has more than 200 clients in California, is gearing up for a nationwide grease-busting attack with the backing of a venture capital arm of W.R. Grace &amp; Co., the New York-based chemical and natural resources company. Bud McMahon, Bio-Care's founder and chairman, has big plans for the little bugs his company uses, which he claims are safer to handle than harsh chemical remedies. ``Every sink and toilet in the country is a potential client,'' he said. ``In our conservative projections, we figure we will service about 10 percent of the 500,000 food service outlets in 60 months, and the company at that time will have a value well over $200 million,'' he said. The only way to get that many clients that fast, he said, is through a franchise organization. ``We have to open up the flood gates to the entrepreneur in the areas who want to do this kind of business.'' Bio-Care is like an HMO, or health maintenance organization, because it offers regular maintenance at a fixed price and will correct any problems at no additional cost, McMahon said. ``It seems to be working fairly well,'' said Norman Fairchild, kitchen manager at the TGI Friday's chain restaurant in San Mateo. ``We had enough problems before that we needed a service like this. They come out once a week for 15 or 20 minutes and spray into the drains in the restaurants and outside. They guarantee their work, so it seems a good deal.'' The bugs that eat the grease are a blend of naturally occurring bacilli and pseudomonas bacteria that have been selectively adapted for Bio-Care by Sybron Chemicals Inc. Sybron, a private company based in Birmingham, N.J., is the nation's largest supplier of specialized bacterial cultures for the pollution control industry. The company has sales of about $120 million a year. No genetic engineering was involved in creating the Bio-Care formula. Instead, the bacteria were chosen and cultivated for their ability to work together as they break down the types of foods that usually clog drains. Several kinds of the bacteria were developed and patented more than a decade ago. Others were mixed in to suit Bio-Care's focus on cleaning up the gunk most often found in restaurant kitchen drains. It took nearly three years to come up with a formula, test it, refine it and produce a final product. The bacteria break down animal fats and food products, liquifying and digesting them and turning them into carbon dioxide, water and bacterial cells, the same way waste is normally disposed of in nature. The Bio-Care bacteria keep eating and multiplying until their food source is gone. Then they die off. ``They grow very rapidly as long as there's a lot of food around, and can double as fast as every 20 minutes,'' said Mike Krupka, marketing manager for Sybron's biochemical division. ``But then the beauty of it is, once whatever is clogging the drain goes away or is totally consumed, the bacteria run out of food and die off. They eat themselves to death.'' About 5 billion bacteria are in each gram in the teabag-like ``Bio-Sock'' packets used by Bio-Care to eliminate grease trap overflow and reduce toxic odors associated with hydrogen sulfide accumulation. ``These are all certified non-pathogenic bacteria, meaning they don't cause disease,'' Krupka said. ``They are not used primarily to get rid of clogs but rather for preventive maintenance. It keeps the grease from accumulating in the pipes and it's not harsh or dangerous to handle the way strong chemicals can be.'' Clogged drains are more quickly cleared through a mechanical process. Then the bacteria are used regularly to keep them clear, he said. By April 1, Bio-Care plans to have franchise applications filed in all 50 states. By the end of the year it expects to have 15 franchises in operation. ``We're going to grow it very slow so everybody has the opportunity to never make mistakes; we're trying to make all the mistakes now,'' McMahon said.
<irrelevant> Two leading companies specializing in plant genetics will merge, officials announced Monday. Spokesmen for Calgene Inc. and Plant Genetics Inc., which operated next door to each other in this university town 75 miles northeast of San Francisco, said a definitive agreement on the merger has been signed. The deal is subject to approval by shareholders of Plant Genetics. Under the agreement, 2.1 million shares of Calgene common stock will be issued in exchange for all outstanding shares of Plant Genetics common stock. Calgene will have 10.3 million shares of stock after the acquisition is completed in June. ``With total revenues of $32.4 million reported by the combined organizations in 1988 and well-established businesses in four of the world's most important agricultural crops, Calgene is positioned to be the leading agricusiness biotechnology company in the world,'' said Roger Salquist, president of Calgene. The combined company, to operate under the name of Calgene, will hold 20 U.S. patents. In 1987, Calgene received the first U.S. Department of Agriculture permit to test genetically engineered plants and expects to conduct more than 12 different field trials with five different genes in three different crops this year. ``Uniting Calgene's proven molecular biology and plant biochemistry leadership and existing portfolio of commercially valuable agronomic genes with Plant Genetics' plant breeding and cell biology programs in alfalfa and potato will significantly expand our proprietary product opportunities,'' said Zachary Wochock, president of Plant Genetics.
<irrelevant> Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev arrives in Havana Sunday for talks that focus attention on the contrast between President Fidel Castro's doctrinaire Marxism and the pragamatic reforms of his communist sponsor. It will be the Soviet leader's first visit to a Latin American country and only his third meeting with Castro, who traveled to Moscow for the 27th Communist Party Congress after Gorbachev took power and participated in the November 1987 Kremlin ceremonies marking the 70th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. In addition to the formal talks beginning Monday, Gorbachev will participate in ceremonial wreath layings and visit a health clinic, a genetic engineering center, and a crew of people who build housing on a voluntary basis. He is expected to address the National Assembly in a nationally broadcast speech Tuesday and leaves the next day for London and meetings with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and Queen Elizabeth II. Gorbachev will be accompanied by his wife Raisa. Both nations have stressed in recent public statements the friendly nature of the visit and the healthy relations between the two communist countries. But Castro in the past has been openly critical of ``perestroika,'' Gorbachev's ambitious modernization program, for borrowing free-market concepts from capitalism. There are indications the Soviets have substantially reduced their aid to the island nation 90 miles off the Florida coast. The Soviets highlighted another difference in the two systems when they held a news conference in Havana on Friday to trumpet the Soviet Union's March 26 parliamentary elections. In Cuba, most forms of dissent are still banned as counterrevolutionary and can carry long prison terms. At a time when Gorbachev is searching for new ideas and proposing experiments to spur economic development, Castro has warned that financial incentives for individuals and decentralizing the economy are dangerous. ``We must watch over the ideological purity of the revolution,'' Castro told his nation on the 30th anniversary of his victory on July 26. ``That is why we cannot use any methods that reek of capitalism.'' Soviet officials and Western observers agree Gorbachev is unlikely to lecture the Cuban leader in public or respond directly to his charges that Soviet reforms take too much from capitalism. That would be seen as a direct contradiction of Gorbachev's often-stated view that there is no one correct route to socialist development. Diplomats in Havana and Moscow said it is unlikely Gorbachev is willing to continue subsidizing the Cuban economy at present levels while faced with widespread shortages, deficit spending and increasingly difficult economic problems at home. According to U.S. estimates, the Kremlin provides Cuba from $4 billion to $6 billion annually in economic and military assistance, and the aid programs and subsidies account for as much as 20 percent of the Cuban gross national product. The diplomats, speaking on condition of anonynmity, said the Soviets already appear to have reduced their purchases of Cuban sugar, which they buy at higher-than-market prices as a way of providing Cuban foreign aid. Some diplomats said they expect Gorbachev to tell Castro bluntly _ but in private _ that Cuban must put its economic house in order. But they suggest Gorbachev may make a public show of superpower support by announcing the Soviet Union's willingness to forgive all or part of Cuba's ruble debt, which has accumulated in the 30 years since the Cuban Revolution. To forgive a debt that is unlikely ever to be repaid actually would cost Gorbachev very little, one diplomat said, while raising the ante for Western industrialized countries that hold most of the Third World debt. Gorbachev told the United Nations in December the Soviet Union was prepared to offer the least-developed countries a moratorium on debt service and ``in quite a few cases to write off the debt altogether'' if the West would go along with a program to solve the debt problems of poorer countries.
</top>
<top>
<num> 83
<title> Measures to Protect the Atmosphere
<relevant> Ringing in the new year are dozens of changes in federal laws and regulations, many of them aimed at quenching Americans' thirst for security and a few that will make life a little more expensive. Among the most significant of the Jan. 1 changes are a vast expansion of Medicare to cover catastrophic illnesses, faster pension fund vesting that will benefit millions, particularly women, and tax changes reducing the government's subsidizing of purchases on credit. Others that occurred just before the end of 1988 or are scheduled early in 1989 include a ban on lie detector tests by private employers, 60 days advance notice of plant closings and large layoffs and a new law prohibiting landlords from discriminating against the handicapped and families with children. A few of the changes are a little more esoteric but their impact eventually may be felt by the entire population. For example, Environmental Protection Agency regulations implementing the 46-nation ozone treaty took effect Jan. 1. The regulations don't require chemical companies to actually do anything until next July, but then they must cut their production of chloroflourocarbon or CFC compounds by an estiamted 20 percent back to 1986 levels. The treaty is aimed at halting the depletion of the ozone layer 15 to 25 miles up protecting the earth's surface from ultraviolet rays. CFC compounds also contribute to the ``greenhouse'' effect that is warming the planet. As a result of the regulations, consumers may notice fewer plastic food containers from fast-food outlets, thicker insulating panels and possibly even slightly harder seat cushions. The biggest of the immediate changes is the Jan 1. expansion of Medicare coverage for 32 million Medicare beneficiaries to include catastrophic health care costs. Prior to passage of the measure last summer by Congress _ the first major expansion of Medicare in its 22-year history _ the program paid full hospital bills for no more than 59 days a year. With the changes that took effect Sunday, the beneficiary still will have to pay the first-day deductible of $560. But that charge will be assessed no more than once a year no matter how many times the patient has to be hospitalized. The other 364 days are fully paid. That fundamental change in the hospital benefit was the cornerstone of the Medicare expansion set in motion by President Reagan in his 1986 State of the Union message. ``Let us remove a financial specter facing our older Ameicans _ the fear of an illness so expensive that it can result in having to make an intolerable choice between bankruptcy and death,'' he said then. Medicare enrollees will pay for the new benefits through a flat increase in the premium deducted from their monthly Social Security checks and an additional sliding scale premium for approximately 40 percent of the elderly who pay federal income tax. The flat increase will be $4 a month effective immediately, climbing to $10.20 monthly in 1993. The sliding scale premium is projected to rise from a maximum of 15 percent of regular income tax liability in 1989 to about 28 percent in 1993. Many of the Jan. 1 changes grow out of the 1986 Tax Reform Act. The biggest new benefit from that law is faster vesting in pension plans. The maximum waiting period for employees to become fully invested in a pension is being cut in half from 10 years to five years. However, employers can adopt an option that denies full vesting until seven years. To do so, they have to offer 20 percent vesting after three years and an additional 20 percent vesting annually until the seventh year, when it reaches 100 percent. The Employee Benefit Research Institute estimates that the pension changes will provide a retirement stake to 2 million more workers a year. ``We'll especially see more women being vested than in the past because they tend to be in the workforce or with the same employer for shorter periods,'' said Stephanie Poe, a spokeswoman for the institute. Another tax change is that only 20 percent of personal interest payments on everything from car and student loans to credit card charges will be deductible in 1989, compared with 40 percent last year. And while the government is now raising tax brackets, exemptions and standard deductions to keep cost-of-living raises from bumping people into higher brackets, it also is taking more Social Security taxes. The 7.51 percent Social Security tax took a maximum $3,380 out of employee paychecks in 1988. This year the maximum amount of income subject to the tax rises from $45,000 to $48,000, raising the maximum Social Security tax that can be collected from an individual employee to $3,605. The latest change came about just last Thursday, when the Federal Aviation Administration ordered airlines, effective Jan. 1, to either inspect by hand or X-ray all luggage checked aboard U.S. airline flights from western Europe and the Middle East. The new inspections, prompted by the bombing of a Pan Am jet over Scotland on Dec. 21, are expected to delay passenger check-ins by about an hour. Other changes taking effect slightly before or after New Year's Day include: _ The use of polygraph or lie detector tests by private employers to screen job applicants was outlawed, with some exceptions, effective last Tuesday. The American Civil Liberties Union estimates the law will effectively eliminate about 80 percent of the 2 million polygraph exams now administered annually. _ A 47-year-old ban on homework in five apparel trades is being removed on Jan. 8, unless unions which support the prohibitions win a court stay first. Affected are an estimated 50,000 to 75,000 workers in fields such as mittens and gloves, embroideries, buttons and buckles, handkerchiefs and some jewelry trades. They will be able to work legally at home for the first time if their employers obtain a certficate from the Labor Department after pledging to abide by minimum wage and other federal labor standards. _ A law requiring employers to provide 60 days advance notice of plant closings or layoffs affecting 50 or more people officially takes effect Feb. 4. However, there are different interpretations on whether companies are required to have provided 60 days notice beforehand if they close a plant on that date. The Labor Department advised in early December that, to avoid potential liability, they should. _ Regulations implementing a law passed by Congress last summer forbidding landlords from discriminating against the handicapped or families with children take effect March 12. Violators can be fined up to $10,000 for a first offense, $25,000 for a second violation in a five-year period and $50,000 for two or more violations within a seven-year period.
<relevant> Now that President-elect Bush has nearly filled his Cabinet, his next major challenge is to fashion a legislative package that he can push through a Democratic-controlled Congress. The problem of the nation's budget deficit looms as the overriding test for Bush, but his aides also are looking to move legislation on issues that Bush stressed during his campaign, including childcare, education, the environment and ethics. The Bush team has said the budget deficit will take priority, and much of his legislative program will depend on the fiscal package he is able to work out with Congress. ``We'd have to have the framework first for dealing with the budget,'' said Craig Fuller, the Bush transition co-director. But he said Bush will still pursue commitments he made during his campaign. That would mean legislative proposals in such areas as environment, childcare and education. In the area of government ethics, where President Reagan vetoed a package from Capitol Hill last fall, Bush said recently that he will send an ethics bill to Congress ``very, very early.'' In his proposals on lobbying by government officials after they've left office, Bush applies the same standards to Congress as to executive branch workers, said Boyden Gray, who will serve as Bush's White House legal counsel. As his budget team toils over the the fiscal framework they will take into congressional negotiations, small groups of aides are working on that and other building blocks of the Bush agenda. Research teams headed by Jim Pinkerton, head of policy development for Bush's transition operation, have gathered data from cabinet departments including synopses of measures pending in Congress and issues seen as key in the new congressional session. Much of the ``serious policy analysis'' on the Bush legislative package is expected to occur early in January, said Robert Teeter, co-director of Bush's transition team. The early proposals are expected to center on a domestic agenda, stressing the ``kinder, gentler'' approach to government that Bush discussed during the campaign. Spending proposals _ such as his plan to expand Medicaid coverage _ ultimately will hinge on how the budget negotiations turn out. For instance, Bush's commitment to the tough anti-drug stance he took during the campaign could be tested in talks on financing the massive new anti-drug legislation Congress passed this fall. The bill calls for $2.7 billion in new spending, but Congress initially appropriated only $976 million. But other items, such as the ethics package, don't have a significant pricetag. One idea is to stress presidential leadership on projects that don't involve large sums of money, such as an international conference Bush has proposed to deal with the problem of global warming of the atmosphere from carbon dioxide. Bush wants a revised clean-air bill, and said in the campaign the nation must have ``a clear commitment to emissions reductions on a clear timetable.'' He said he will work with Congress ``on the exact amounts and exact methodology'' to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulpher dioxide emissions. On one of the acid-rain sticking points, Bush proposes burden sharing of the costs among ratepayers nationwide rather than just in the polluting regions. The Clean Air Act has been up for renewal every year this decade, but Congress has been unable to agree on the provision dealing with acid rain. ``There will be a long negotiation on acid rain and clean air authorization,'' predicted Bush adviser Bob Grady. Environmentalists also are waiting to see how the Bush team handles some of the regulatory aspects of environmental protection and cleanup, a subject on which the Reagan administration was heavily criticized. Another controversial topic is offshore oil drilling. Congress, in an ad hoc approach, has tacked on a drilling prohibition for the California coast, for example, when passing appropriations for the Interior Department each year. Bush, a former oilman, has shied away from blanket bans, saying he will look at the drilling situation on a tract-by-tract basis. Bush also emphasized education issues during the campaign. His proposals include a $500 million merit schools program, $50 million for magnet schools, and $50 million for programs in teaching reform and innovation. He also promised to push for a big increase in Head Start funding, to extend it to all eligible 4-year-olds. Bush during the campaign pledged a childcare plan, to include a government refund for childcare expenses for the poor, with a $1,000 tax credit per child under age 4. Differences between Bush's childcare plan and versions offered by Congress are expected to spark a battle. The new president also will send Congress his plan for YES, or Youth Entering Service to America. It calls for $100 million to match private sector grants for young people to volunteer in community service programs.
<relevant> President-elect Bush was urged today to support development of new types of nuclear power plants as a way of slowing global warming caused by the ``greenhouse effect.'' Research on new types of nuclear reactors is one way to develop energy sources that produce no carbon dioxide, a principal cause of the atmospheric warming, said a panel convened by the National Academy of Sciences and two sister organizations. The academy, the National Academy of Engineering and the National Institute of Medicine made a series of recommendations to the president-elect on the environment, AIDS, space and science policy. In a cover letter to Bush, the presidents of the three bodies said, ``global environmental change must be made more prominent in the scientific, political and foreign policy agendas of the United States.'' The letter concentrated on five other points: _Since global warming and acid rain are both produced by use of fossil fuels, ``efforts to enhance both energy efficiency and conservation should be strengthened.'' It added that ways to increase ``use of the `cleanest' fossil fuels, such as natural gas, should be considered, but in the context of their finite availability.'' _Immediate assessment of possible responses to rising sea levels, drought and the northward migration of agricultural zones. _Nations that have signed a treaty to reduce emissions that destroy the ozone layer should be encouraged to accelerate those reductions and aim at a ``total phaseout.'' These chemical account for about a fifth of the expected global warming. The Environmental Protection Agency already has called for such a phaseout. _Strategies are needed to prevent the destruction of tropical forests. The loss of forests around the world probably adds a fifth of the carbon dioxide produced by fossil fuels, the group said. An area the size of Missouri is lost each year, according to some estimates, and if nothing is done there could be no tropical forests left early in the next century, the panel said. _A ``substantial investment'' is needed in ground-based and space-based monitoring of the earth. ``Leadership by the United States could be a powerful force for uniting the nations of the world in a common endeavor vitally important to all,'' the academy presidents said. The report cited predictions of a two-to-nine degrees Fahrenheit increase in average temperatures sometime in the next century and said: ``While global environmental change cannot be stopped, the pace of change can be slowed.'' ``Production of energy from fossil fuels is the root of several of the agents of global environmental change,'' the report said. The report also recommended re-examining use of wind and solar energy ``to see if recent progress has improved their economic feasibility as possible substitutes for fossil fuels in the years ahead.''
<relevant> Scientists, engineers and physicians urged President-elect Bush on Thursday to support their recommendations in the battle against AIDS, to take steps to improve the global environment, and to establish goals for the space program. Recommendations by the National Academy of Sciences and its affiliated National Academy of Engineering and National Institute of Medicine, in the form of white papers commissioned by the presidents of the organizations, included: _Development of a comprehensive plan to finance care for those suffering from Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, and legislation to ban discrimination against them. The contagious disease attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections. _Reduction in use of fossil fuels, to slow the ``greenhouse effect'' warming of the planet. They also advocated stepped-up research into non-fossil energy sources such as a ``publicly acceptable'' nuclear reactor, and urged increased energy efficiency throughout the economy. _Swift selection of a chief for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, coupled with making the space effort a $10 billion-a-year base operation augmented by separately financed special efforts, such as the space station, which might add $3 billion to $4 billion in peak years. _Early naming of a science adviser to help select dozens of key scientific executives throughout the government, sort out controversy among competiting weapons systems, rebuild competitiveness of the nation's technologies and reverse declining scientific and technical education. In a cover letter to Bush, the presidents of the three organizations said that ``global environmental change must be made more prominent in the scientific, political and foreign policy agendas of the United States.'' The groups released white papers in the areas of the environment, AIDS, space and science policy by special study panels. Regarding space research, the panel told Bush the United States cannot take a leading position without his help. ``To give visibility to the importance of his space program, the president must establish his goals early in his administration. He should then support them strongly with the public and the Congress to help ensure their achievement,'' the experts said. On AIDS, the panel urged the Bush administration to protect those infected with the deadly virus from discrimination and ensure that screening tests for the disease be employed ``only when their purposes are clear and their results productive.'' The AIDS study also said Bush should continue aggressive educational programs and develop a plan for financing care of AIDS victims. It urged the United States to be a leader in the international battle against AIDS and increase contributions to the global program to $50 million a year by 1990 from the current $15 million. The space panel said it believed a space station ``is essential to establish the feasibility of extended human space flight'' if the nation wants to pursue it. But the concept of a space station ``will require revalidation to ensure that it fully supports the goals established by the president.'' Bush has said he favors the space station. The space panel also urged a study of turning over to private operators more of NASA's field activities such as the Marshall Space Flight Center at Huntsville, Ala., perhaps along the lines of the NASA-owned Jet Propulsion Laboratory operated by the California Institute of Technology. The environment panel said natural gas should be favored over other fossil fuels in the short run because it releases less carbon dioxide than other fuels, but ``we should explore means for reducing energy demand without impeding economic growth, for example, by using fossil fuels with greater efficiency.'' Carbon dioxide is increasing in the atmosphere at about 0.3 percent per year and accounts for about half the expected warming of two degrees Fahrenheit to nine degrees the academy expects in the next century. Provisions of the treaty reducing emissions of chemicals that destroy the ozone layer should be accelerated and a complete ban on those chemicals sought, the panel said. These chlorofluorocarbon compounds also worsen the greenhouse effect. The Environmental Protection Agency already has called for such a ban.
<relevant> The Environmental Protection Agency said Monday it is considering charging the chemical industry a fee for the right to produce chlorofluorocarbons as an attempt to spur the phasing out of such production. Under international treaty, production of chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs, is to be curtailed to l986 levels next July and cut in half by l998. The chemical is widely blamed for depletion of the world's atmospheric ozone. In its fiscal l990 budget, announced Monday, the EPA said it plans to propose charging the chemical industry ``market value for the rights to produce CFCs and related ozone-depleting substances.'' EPA Administrator Lee M. Thomas told reporters the agency has yet to determine precisely what mechanism will be used to determine the fee, which he said is expected to produce about $400 million in revenue. Under various proposals under consideration, the government could charge a fee for a certain volume of CFCs produced or could auction off production permits, officials suggested. In either case, the federal fee structure is expected to keep producers from reaping windfall profits as the available volume of CFCs is reduced in the coming years. Federal officials fear high profits would work against the industry rapidly developing substitute products. Producers of CFCs immediately criticized the plan, although it is still in the preliminary stages of development. ``The government proposal is a blatant, illegal tax on an industry that is striving to restructure through an orderly transition to alternative products,'' said a statement issued by the DuPont Company, which is the world's largest producer of CFCs. The company said either a permit fee or an auction on permits ``will likely result in dislocations in the supply of these important chemicals.'' The EPA last summer also said in a preliminary regulatory proposal that some kind of permit and fee structure might be necessary to prevent CFC producers from taking in windfall profits and, thereby, slowing down the phasing out of CFC production. Because of the concern about ozone depletion, the nation's of the world have agreed that the production of chlorofluorocarbons are to be phased out. CFCs are used for a variety of purposes including as a coolant in air conditioning units and refrigerators, in Halon gas fire extinguishers, in the production of styrofome, and in many countries as a propellant in spray cans. DuPont said that annually $28 billion in goods and services and $135 billion worth of equipment depend on CFCs in some way.
<irrelevant> Rain at a monitoring station in central Pennsylvania registered the highest acid content of 131 sites in 46 states, contributing to the state's No. 1 ranking in acidic rainfall for 1987, an environmental group said. The information was provided by the Natural Resources Defense Council, a Washington, D.C.-based, non-profit group that has lobbied for sharp reductions in pollutants that cause acid rain, such as sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. The council said federal monitoring data revealed the most acid rain was recorded at the Leading Ridge in Huntingdon County, in central Pennsylvania. Rain there had an average pH of 4.08, which is 33 times more acidic than unpolluted rain, the council said recently. The pH scale measures acidity, with 7 being neutral. The lower the number, the more acidic the rain. Unpolluted rain is slightly acidic, with a pH of 5.6. Many pollutants are emitted by coal-fired power plants, factories and cars. The materials are thought to undergo changes in the atmosphere and fall to Earth as acid rain, snow, sleet, fog and dry particles.
<irrelevant> Interior Secretary Donald P. Hodel is leaving Washington convinced that leaders of environmental organizations are much too partisan and out of touch with their members. Hodel also said in a farewell interview that he believes the global warming called the ``greenhouse effect'' has been overblown, and the cost of cleaning up the nation's nuclear weapons plants has been overstated. Hodel said he was ``delighted and astounded'' that the losing Democratic campaign of Michael Dukakis argued, in Hodel's words, that ``you don't have to choose between an improving environment and an adequate energy and minerals supply; you can do both'' _ his own position. The environmentalists who attacked President Reagan's first interior secretary, James Watt, whom Hodel served as deputy, were ``the anti-can-do-both'' people, Hodel said. Hodel often has been called a smoother version of Watt, following the same policies but without the rancor. Asked if he were a ``Watt policy clone,'' he replied, ``I hope so, because we worked for the same man,'' Ronald Reagan. Watt's critics ``were the people who said we had to choose between improving our environment and the lifestyle of the American people. They were the ones who had foisted the idea off on the Carter administration that we were going to have to live with less, that there was a malaise in the country, that the United States' glory days were behind us.'' Hodel said many leaders of environmental organizations ``made a horrible mistake'' when they endorsed Carter for re-election in a White House Rose Garden ceremony in 1980. ``I think if their membership understood how blatantly partisan the paid leadership was, the membership would demand that something be done,'' Hodel said. Few environmental leaders made an endorsement in the just-concluded campaign, though some attacked the record of the Reagan administration and George Bush. The leaders are ``single-issue people,'' Hodel said, but ``the bulk of the membership really does believe we can do both. They are responsible, dedicated supporters of wildlife, clean air, clean water and the environment.'' Hodel's complaint was scoffed at by two environmental organizations. ``When I joined the Wilderness Society in January 1981, the same month the Reagan administration took office, we had 40,000 members. We now have 240,000,'' said former Sen. Gaylord Nelson, D-Wis., the society's counselor. ``Every single environmental organization in the United States has significantly increased its membership,'' Nelson said. Dave Baker, political director of Friends of the Earth, said, ``Our membership votes with their dollars. ... I think our membership does believe you can do both (enhance the economy and protect the environment), but I don't think Don Hodel and the administration have done much to promote that.'' Hodel, however, insisted that self-styled public interest groups have been taken over by ``single-issue politicians.'' He said that in the early 1980s it was clear that the impending release of much natural gas from price controls would mean falling prices because demand had fallen below production. ``The consumer lobby continued to insist that price controls were necessary to `protect the consumer.' And I don't think it had anything to do with `protecting the consumer.' It has to do with a regulatory frame of mind that these people have, which is: They want the government, which they as single-interest politicians can influence, in control of the market because then they can skew it for their purposes when they need to.'' Some gas was decontrolled and prices did fall. The Reagan administration has not succeeded in persuading Congress to free the remaining 40 percent of gas still under controls. Hodel said he believes that nuclear waste cleanup costs faced by the Energy Department probably have been overstated. ``When you hear $360 billion estimates or whatever the number is, that includes cleanup way beyond what is necessary for health and safety,'' he said. The Energy Department has estimated it needs $81 billion through 2010 for cleanup and modernization. Hodel also discounts the worst-case scenarios offered for the greenhouse effect. He said he thinks that ``the global warming is primarily occurring because of long-range global or universal or solar-system-wide effects, and we will find that the human input definitely has an effect, but that is not nearly so great'' as the initial estimates. Many scientists argue that the global warming produced by carbon dioxide results mainly from the burning of fossil fuels. They say it has increased average temperatures by nearly one degree Fahrenheit over the past century and is likely to increase temperatures three to eight degrees by sometime in the middle of the next century, raising sea levels, increasing droughts and shifting crop production zones.
<irrelevant> A study of temperature and precipitation data collected over nearly a century shows the United States has not become any hotter, drier, colder or wetter, scientists say. The study of data collected by weather stations across the country from 1895 to 1987 concluded that while the nation has experienced periods of unusual temperature and precipitation, there has been no trend in one direction or another. The study, published in the current issue of Geophysical Research Letters, does not support the ``rising notion'' that there have been major climatic changes in this country, researcher George Maul of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said here Wednesday night. The findings don't necessarily cast doubt on previous findings of a worldwide warming trend and have no bearing on the greenhouse-effect theory that a buildup of carbon dioxide and pollutants is acting like a greenhouse and causing such warming, lead researcher Kirby Hanson said in interviews with The New York Times and the Los Angeles Times. Hanson, a meteorologist, pointed out that the United States occupies only a small percentage of the Earth's surface, and said the new findings may be the result of regional variations. Last July, James Hansen of the National Aviation and Space Administration's Goddard Institute startled members of Congress when he testified that unusually hot conditions, such as last summer's drought and rash of wildfires, could be forerunners of the greenhouse effect. Hansen said temperatures had risen nearly 1 degree worldwide during the last century. He said Wednesday that he had no quarrel with the new study's findings. ``We are just arguing now about whether the global warming effect is large enough to see,'' Hanson said. ``It is not surprising we are not seeing it in a region (the 48 contiguous states) that covers only 1.5 percent of the globe.'' Maul said the study indicates scientists need to be cautious in concluding whether the United States can detect a greenhouse effect.
<irrelevant> A new study of U.S. weather records for the past century may raise questions about the theory that the Earth is being warmed like the inside of a greenhouse. Scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration report that they can find no evidence of any overall temperature increase for the United States, although weather does vary considerably from year to year. The report, in the January edition of Geophysical Research Letters, showed no significant change in the nation's average temperature or precipitation between 1895 and 1987. Researchers agree, however, that since the study covers only a small portion of the Earth, studies of other areas might have different results. And while the new study is not necessarily inconsistent with a so-called greenhouse effect, it fuels an escalating scientific debate. Claims that a greenhouse-like warming has already begun have attracted widespread publicity recently, with the heat and drought this past summer attracting additional attention. According to the theory, the increasing amount of carbon dioxide and some other gases in the atmosphere tend to trap heat from the sun, warming the earth in somewhat the same way as the glass warms a greenhouse. Such a warming could damage crop growing areas, melt the polar ice caps, raise sea levels and have other dire effects, according to a variety of analyses that have been published. Scientists expressed skepticism about whether the warming has already begun, however, at last month's meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco. Indeed, some climate experts say any warming would likely result in more cloudiness, and that would tend to cool the Earth by reflecting some sunlight back into space. In addition, a study published in the Journal of Climate in November disclosed that an apparent climate warming of as much as 1 degree Fahrenheit could be attributed to the heat generated by growing cities, since many weather stations are located in urban areas. ``The most important result of this study is that there is no statistically significant evidence of an overall increase in annual temperature or change in annual precipitation for the contiguous U.S., 1895-1987,'' concluded the authors of the new analysis. That report was compiled by Kirby Hanson of the NOAA Air Resources Laboratory, George A. Maul of the NOAA Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory and Thomas R. Karl of the National Climatic Data Center. They looked at both temperature and moisture since the greenhouse theory holds that a warming of the climate would likely result in changes in rainfall patterns, causing drought in some areas. ``Assuming the numbers are right, they are not inconsistent'' with the greenhouse theory, responded John Topping of the Climate Institute. Topping, who organized a recent conference on coping with the greenhouse effect, noted that the study covers only the United States _ only about 6 percent of the Earth _ and suggested that similar analyses of other areas might have different results. Hanson has concurred that the study covers only a small part of the world and that the finding may only represent a regional variation rather than a worldwide trend. James E. Hansen, director of the National Aviation and Space Administration's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, said Wednesday that he was not surprised by the result. Hansen, who told Congress last summer that he believes the greenhouse warming has begun to affect Earth, said that the argument is over whether the warming has become large enough to measure. Determining that may be hard to do, however, the NOAA researchers pointed out in their analysis. Lack of good records in some areas and changes in instruments, methods of observation, exposure of thermometers, time of observations and other problems make the problem of comparing historical records extremely complex. In their study they analyzed records from some 6,000 observing points over 93 years and found considerable year-to-year variation but no long-term trend other than an increase in precipitation, in the fall, between 1970 and 1987.
<irrelevant> Scientists looking at nearly a century of records say they can't discern any warming trend to confirm the threat of a greenhouse-like heating of the earth. The heat and drought of last summer helped fuel concern about the greenhouse theory of climate change, even though scientists cautioned that one unusual season didn't necessarily prove a long-term trend. Now, researchers at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration report that they have been unable to find evidence of any overall temperature increase for the United States. ``The most important result of this study is that there is no statistically significant evidence of an overall increase in annual temperature or change in annual precipitation for the contiguous U.S., 1895-1987,'' concluded the authors of the new analysis. Another leading climate expert, however, cautioned that the findings don't necessarily knock down the greenhouse theory. James E. Hansen of the Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York said that the new analysis is limited to the United States. It's not inconsistent with the greenhouse theory for some parts of the world to be warmer, others cooler and some to show no change at this point, he said in a telephone interview. By the mid-1990s, he went on, the data should show a clearer trend. ``Assuming the numbers are right, they are not inconsistent'' with the greenhouse warming theory, responded John Topping of the Climate Institute, also pointing out that the study covers only the United States. The new study, published in the January edition of Geophysical Research Letters, showed no significant change in the nation's average temperature or precipitation between 1895 and 1987. According to the greenhouse theory, the growing amounts of carbon dioxide and some other gases in the atmosphere tend to trap heat from the sun, warming the earth in somewhat the same way glass warms a greenhouse. This drew widespread attention last summer as hot, dry weather parched fields across much of the nation. Cooler fall temperatures dropped the national average for the year back to near normal, however. Scientists at last month's meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco expressed skepticism about whether the effect has already begun. In addition, some climate experts contend that warmer weather would evaporate water to generate more clouds, and that those clouds would then deflect some incoming sunlight and cool the earth. And a study published in the Journal of Climate in November disclosed that an apparent climate warming of as much as 1 degree Fahrenheit could be the fault of the heat generated by growing cities, since many weather stations are located in urban areas. The new report was compiled by Kirby Hanson of the NOAA Air Resources Laboratory, George A. Maul of the NOAA Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory and Thomas R. Karl of the National Climatic Data Center. They looked at both temperature and moisture since the greenhouse theory holds that a warming of the climate would likely result in changes in rainfall patterns, causing drought in some areas. The study analyzed records from some 6,000 observing points over 93 years and found considerable year-to-year variation but no long-term trend other than an increase in precipitation, in the fall, between 1970 and 1987.
</top>
<top>
<num> 84
<title> Alternative/renewable Energy Plant & Equipment Installation
<relevant> An Alabama power cooperative has started building the nation's first commercial power project that will draw on a huge reserve of compressed air to help generate electricity. The air will be stored in a cavern measuring some 19 million cubic feet, roughly one-third the space enclosed by Houston's Astrodome. When a generating plant to be built above the cavern starts working in 1991, it will help meet peak power demands during the air-conditioning months of June through August, said John Howard of Alabama Electric Cooperative. The $50 million project offers a less expensive way to meet intermittent power demands than the conventional alternative, project officials say. During periods of slack demand, the plant will compress air and pump it into the cavern, using electricity generated by other plants. The air will be stored at up to about 1,100 pounds per square inch, more than 30 times the pressure found in automobile tires. To generate electricity later, the plant will withdraw compressed air, heat it and run it through its turbines. In contrast, a conventional plant for meeting periodic peaks compresses air at the time it generates electricity, using natural gas as fuel, said Peter Totten of Gibbs &amp; Hill Inc., a New York firm serving as architects and engineers for the Alabama project. The Alabama approach will save money because using electricity from the other plants is less expensive than burning natural gas to compress air, he said. About a dozen American utilities are seriously looking at compressed-air power plants, said Robert Schainker, manager of the energy storage program at the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif. Such plants are ``very economically attractive'' for supplying power more than four or five hours a day but less than 12 hours a day, he said. One project has been operating in West Germany since 1978, he said. Another is being built in the Soviet Union, and another is planned in Israel, he said.
<relevant> A geothermal field on the southern island of Kyushu could produce 250 megawatts of electricity and become the largest in Japan, a construction company said Thursday. Fujita Corp. said one well that it drilled a year ago in Oita on Kyushu had been proved to be the largest producer of steam and hot water in the world, issuing 120 tons of steam and 100 tons of hot water an hour, enough to produce 20 megawatts of electricity. Spokesman Hitoshi Miyagishima said Fujita was digging several more wells in the geothermal field and had a plan to build 30 wells to produce 250 megawatts of electricity with an investment of $1.2 billion. But he said Fujita had not approached the local utility about building the plant, nor had it asked the national government for financial aid. If the field is fully developed, it would more than double the current national total of 215 megawatts of electricity from geothermal sources, Fujita said. Press reports said Japan still would trail the United States because one field there has a generating capacity of 1,900 megawatts. Japan, despite its many volcanos and hot springs, has not devoted much effort to exploring geothermal energy until recently. Its main drive has been into nuclear reactors, which supplied 29 percent of the country's electricity in 1987. The government has approved a plan to double the output of nuclear power plants by the year 2000. A nuclear reactor usually produces more than 1,000 megawatts of electricity, or more than four times the output of the projected geothermal field in Kyushu.
<relevant> A desert power plant burns enough cow dung to electrify up to 20,000 homes, thanks to 250,000 cattle, $37 million in tax-exempt bonds and an environmentalist-lawyer seeking his fortune as an ``entremanure.'' It's the first commercial power plant that burns only cattle chips for fuel, although smaller facilities ``digest'' manure to produce methane to generate electricity, said Will Parish, founder and president of National Energy Associates Inc. Parish, 36, left his job with a San Francisco law firm to start the Mill Valley company, which he said is dedicated to ``doing well by doing good'' by building profitable but socially and environmentally responsible energy projects. The $46 million, 17{-megawatt Mesquite Lake Resource Recovery Project, financed by the bonds plus $9 million from investors, is located next to its fuel supply: cattle feedlots near Imperial in the desert about 110 miles east of San Diego. It fired up in November 1987 and began continuous on-line electricity production last October. ``It truly is a unique plant,'' said Bill McCroskey, a project development manager for Southern California Edison Co. ``We are presently buying power from them (under a 30-year contract). The plant satisfactorily passed its operating test last fall. They are considered a reliable energy source.'' The plant runs at 70 percent to 85 percent of its maximum capacity as its construction company, Lurgi Corp. of Frankfurt, West Germany, ``tweaks'' it toward full net capacity of 15 megawatts, enough to power 15,000 to 20,000 homes using 800 to 900 tons of manure daily, Parish said. The plant runs on the other 2{ megawatts it produces. Parish said the plant's output represents annual savings of 300,000 barrels of oil that otherwise would be burned for power, and relieves pressure on Imperial Valley landfills. Until the entrepreneur came along, feedlot owners paid to have manure carted away and dumped. It has little value as fertilizer because it contains too much salt and weed seeds. Now NEA buys the dung for $1 per ton from 15 feedlots. ``I've been called a manure mogul,'' Parish joked. ``My alma mater ... referred to me in the alumni notes as the class of 1975's first `entremanure.''' Loaders scoop up manure from some 250,000 cattle, and about 60 trucks deliver it to the Mesquite Lake plant, where ``we stack it like a precious commodity,'' Parish said. Conveyor belts feed 40 tons of manure an hour into the plant, where it is dried and dropped into special furnaces. The heat produces more than 150,000 pounds of steam hourly to drive a turbine and electric generator. Because the power plant qualified as a waste recovery operation, the California Pollution Control Financing Authority issued $37.2 million in bonds to help finance construction. NEA raised $9 million more by forming a limited partnership. Repayment of the 20-year, investment-grade bonds is guaranteed by National Westminster Bank USA. ``We have seen a number of unusual proposals, and this is clearly one of them,'' Keith Seegmiller, the financing authority's deputy executive secretary, said by phone from Sacramento. Parish has called the plant ``a cash cow'' because ``manure costs a penny a kilowatt hour, and we sell electricity at 7 cents a kilowatt hour. That translates on an annual basis to a fuel cost of about $2 million and gross sales of about $10 million, leaving $8 million to cover (other) expenses and profits.'' While tax-free bonds are attractive, Parish said it wasn't always easy soliciting partners to invest a minimum of $50,000 each. ``I got questions like, `What will happen if the cattle get constipated?''' Parish recalled. The power plant yields about 160 tons of ash daily, but Parish expects to be selling all of it by year's end as an additive to paving materials and fertilizer and an absorbent to soak up toxic contaminants from geothermal energy wells. NEA now is building a $60 million, 17-megawatt power plant next to the manure plant. It will burn manure, wood waste and various agricultural wastes.
<relevant> The vessel is anything but traditional but a ceremony Saturday will employ the standard champagne bottle christening for the world's first pre-fabricated hydroelectric plant. ``We're inflicting a little bit of shipyard tradition on it,'' said Bruce Wismar, the man who oversaw construction of the 12-story structure at Avondale Industries. ``After all, it will be making a heck of a trip.'' Three tugs will push the 456-foot long Merrimac, which resembles a 12-story grey box, 208 miles up the Mississippi River in late April or early May, depending on river conditions, Wismar said. The structure _ actually a power plant enclosed in a dam _ is so massive it will have to be partially sunk near Baton Rouge to allow it to pass under a bridge, but Wisner said no trouble was expected during the four- to five-day journey. ``We will ballast it down to get under the bridge, probably by about 50-feet or five stories... We have installed a temporary ballast system and 24 pumps to pump the water back out when we're past the bridge,'' Wismar said. A 106-foot deep hole has been prepared at the flooded site of the new plant between the Mississippi and Red Rivers about 40 miles below Vidalia. Once the plant is floated onto the site, a levee will be rebuilt, the water drained off and the plant permanently grounded. The eight-turbine power plant is expected to begin generating electricity by 1990. The brainchild of former Vidalia mayor, Sidney Murray Jr., the plant is intended to produce cheap electricity for the 6,800 Vidalia residents and help generate jobs and prosperity for the town, which has been hit hard by depressed oil and farming industries. ``When we started all of this we had 22 percent unemployment in our area,'' Murray said Thursday. ``What I really wanted to do back them was just try to stabilize energy prices,'' he said. ``...I think we can do that when the plant gets going and I think it will attract some industry to our area.'' Skyrocketing oil prices in past years sent rates for electricity from local oil-fired power plants soaring. Rates never receded when oil prices did and expectations were that if oil prices rose strongly again in coming years the electric rates again would follow suit. The plant will produce enough electricity for over 200,000 homes. Vidalia is entitled to between 6 percent and 15 percent of the electricy, enough to supply its residents. When the debt for building the $500 million facility is paid off in 41 years through plant revenue, Vidalia will begin receiving a third of the money from the sale of power and can set local electric rates. The other two partners are Catalyst Energy Development Corporation of New York and Dominion Capital Inc. of Virginia. Catalyst is a wholly owned subsidiary of Merrimac Inc., a privately-held corporation principally owned by Tom B. Pickens III, son of the noted corporate raider T. Boone Pickens. Merrimac and its related companies have 18 operating facilities in 13 states and 10 more projects under construction. Local officials expect the population of Vidalia to double in coming years as more businesses move to a 280-acre industrial park aimed at capitalizing on the new source of power. City officials and a lot of what Murray called ``regular residents'' planned to journey to New Orleans for Saturday's ceremonies, he said. ``It's been 13 years, and I think they want to actually see it so they'll really believe it's going to happen now,'' Murray said.
<relevant> Energy Secretary James D. Watkins said Friday he hopes the idle Savannah River nuclear weapons plant will become the ``flagship'' of the nation's nuclear facilities, even though he has delayed reopening it. The Savannah River Site's three nuclear reactors, the nation's sole source of tritium used in the production of nuclear warheads, have been shut down for safety modifications since August. Watkins, in South Carolina to tour the plant, said he hoped to announce a startup date for the reactors by July. Earlier this week, he said he would delay resumption of production at the plant, slated for late 1989, until at least early 1990. ``Until we are convinced we have the best interests of our people at heart, the reactors will not be restarted,'' Watkins told employees at the plant. The energy secretary said it was important to delay the restart ``to demonstrate to (the) American people ... that we know how to manage nuclear technology.'' The 330-acre plant on the Georgia border manufactures tritium, a radioactive gas used to boost the explosive power of nuclear warheads. Shortly after the reactors were shut down, the department said it could have them running again by late 1988. After that target was missed, the department told Congress it expected startup by late this year. The Pentagon warned of an imminent shortage of the vital nuclear material, but that did not discourage Watkins from delaying the plant's restart. While the nation's dwindling supply of tritium is a concern, ``it's a matter of what steps we can take. The worst thing would be a preliminary start-up'' of the reactors, said U.S. Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Georgia, who accompanied Watkins on a morning tour of the plant. Watkins said he believed the Savannah River Site, once back in operation, would become the best-run facility among the country's nuclear weapons and power plants. ``I can see us emerging here as the number one plant in the nation. That's my goal _ to have this plant be the flagship,'' Watkins told employees at a meeting in the plant's cafeteria. Numerous relevations surfaced about the plant last year, prompting its shutdown. Among them were concern over accidents, lax management and policies that stressed production over safety. Westinghouse Electric Corp. took over management of the plant on April 1. Before that, it was operated and managed by chemical giant E.I. du Pont de Nemours &amp; Co., which built the plant 38 years ago.
<irrelevant> An unreleased Department of Energy report concludes that a linear accelerator could produce one of the key ingredients in nuclear weapons more cheaply, quickly and safely than new production reactors could. Such an accelerator would produce far less radioactive waste than a nuclear reactor and ``should be more readily acceptable to the public,'' according to a draft summary of the report obtained by The Associated Press on Thursday. The U.S. supply of tritium, a radioactive gas used to produce nuclear warheads, is threatened by the crumbling condition of the Energy Department's existing weapons plants and reactors. The report, prepared by scientists at the Brookhaven and Los Alamos national laboratories and at Westinghouse-Hanford Co. in Washington state, concluded that an accelerator could produce enough tritium to meet all U.S. weapons needs. An accelerator is essentially a long tunnel in which subatomic particles are whipped at high speeds until they crash into a target, in this case lithium clad in aluminium. The resulting collision produces tritium. According to the report, using such an accelerator to make tritium would not produce any ``long-lived'' nuclear wastes and ``costs associated with safety and environmental concerns should be minimal.'' In addition, it said, an accelerator ``does not have the licensing requirements associated with nuclear reactors and should be more readily acceptable to the public.'' Last July, the department recommended building two new production reactors, one at the Savannah River complex near Aiken, S.C., and the other at the Idaho Falls National Laboratory in Idaho. At present, the nation's only facilities for producing tritium are three reactors at Savannah River, but all three are shut down either for maintenance or because of safety problems. Department officials have said that at least one of the reactors should be back on line this year, but the start-up date continues to slip as more problems are found. The department's Energy Research Advisory Board looked ``briefly'' at using an accelerator to produce tritium, but ended up recommending construction of two new reactors, said Chris Sankey, a DOE spokeswoman. ``The board concluded that these technologies were not mature enough to provide new production capacity in the next 10 to 12 years,'' she said. But the DOE report said that the nation's tritium needs could be met by using an accelerator ``that could be in operation as early as 1996.'' By comparison, the proposed new reactors are expected to take a minimum of 10 years to complete. ``The required accelerator technology has largely been demonstrated at the component level although some additional development work is desirable to effect cost reductions, improved performance and ease of operation,'' the report said. The accelerator would take massive amounts of electricity to operate, roughly the entire output of a nuclear power plant. One potential site for it would be in the Pacific Northwest, which has the cheapest electric rates in the nation. The report said ``preliminary discussions'' with the Bonneville Power Administration indicated that the federal power marketing agency based in Portland, Ore., would have enough electricity available to power an accelerator. An accelerator could cost more to build, but because the cost of operating it would be about half that of a reactor, ``total life cycle costs,'' including construction, would be about 25 percent less, said Pierre Grand, a scientist at Brookhaven. The two planned new reactors would cost an estimated $6.8 billion. Grand acknowledged that ``those are ballpark figures and we need to do a lot more work to come up with firm estimates.'' But he said he was convinced that construction of an accelerator would ``alleviate all the safety, licensing and waste problems'' associated with a reactor. Grand said that while radioactive waste would be produced, ``you won't have the transuranic wastes that are the culprits in terms of long-term storage.''
<irrelevant> Construction projects worth more than $80 million are in progress at the federal government's uranium-processing plant in nearby Fernald despite recommendations that the facility be closed by 1994. About 500 of the plant's 1,264 employees have finished two-thirds of a six-year schedule of projects to replace old equipment and improve safeguards at the 39-year-old plant. In contrast, only 123 of the workers were involved in cleanup of radioactive contamination at the facility, which processes uranium the government refines elsewhere for use in nuclear weapons. The construction work is defended by the plant owner, the U.S. Department of Energy and the plant operator, Westinghouse Materials Co. of Ohio. Both claim the projects will improve environmental safety and production at the site 18 miles northwest of Cincinnati. ``There is no construction that I am aware of that would fall under the category of expanding production capability,'' said Westinghouse spokesman Bob Walker. ``There are a number of improvements and construction projects that, while related to production, are environmental or safety-related.'' The Energy Department scheduled $88 million worth of construction at Fernald from 1985 to 1991. About $7 million worth of projects that would have increased production capacity have been canceled because demand for uranium at the plant has fallen sharply as other government reactors have closed. A report by the Energy Department, known as the ``2010 Report,'' recommended closing the plant by 1994. Former President Reagan concurred with the report and passed it along to Congress. The recommendation, however, has no legal force. ``We're supposed to maintain the feasibility of production until we're phased out,'' Pete Kelley, a Westinghouse spokesman told The Cincinnati Enquirer in a story published Saturday. Neighbors of the facility have sued the plant's former operator, National Lead of Ohio, alleging it allowed unsafe amounts of chemical and radioactive pollution into the atmosphere, putting their health at risk and depleting the value of their property. The Energy Department has acknowledged the pollution in documents filed in the suit pending in U.S. District Court in Cincinnati. Critics question using money for construction on a plant the government wants to close. ``It's typical. ... Money that obviously should be used for cleanup is being frittered away on projects they admit will not be needed,'' said Tom Carpenter, a spokesman for the Government Accountability Project, a Washington-based lobbying group. Bob Alvarez, a spokesman for Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, said it makes no sense ``to pour money into revitalizing the facility when there are problems that will just fester and get worse.'' But Bruce Boswell of Westinghouse, the plant's president, said the facility must be maintained in good condition because its capacity may still be needed. ``Although the 2010 report says we'll operate just until 1994, that doesn't mean everything here will be demolished then,'' Kelley said. ``And we do have production quotas for the next few years.''
<irrelevant> The protective containment shells on nearly one-quarter of the nation's commercial nuclear reactors should be modified to reduce the risk of rupture during a major accident, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff said Thursday. But the staff, making the recommendation to the commission, said the containment vessels, known as Mark I and built by General Electric Co., posed no immediate danger to public health or safety. The commission took no action and said it would meet soon with an NRC advisory panel that earlier this week said the proposed modifications were unjustified. The plant owners have generally opposed past suggestions of modifying the containment shells, although the Pilgrim nuclear reactor at Plymouth, Mass., over the last year has voluntarily performed all the actions now being urged by the NRC staff. Victor Stello, the NRC's executive director of operations, told the commissioners that the modifications would cost no more than $150 million for all 24 plants involved, and that the financial burden was more than offset by safety gains. He added, however, ``We do not believe there is any particular problem that requires precipitous action.'' The Mark I containments have been singled out for attention by the NRC because studies have shown them to be more vulnerable to failure during a reactor accident than other containment systems. A containment failure could lead to the release of dangerous amounts of radioactivity into the atmosphere around the reactor. The probability of a reactor core meltdown in a Mark I containment in any given years is estimated at between one-in-10,000 and one-in-100,000 _ not appreciably different than the risk for the industry as a whole, said Bill Beckner, the NRC's chief of severe accident issues. As recently as 1986, NRC officials said the Mark I containment system was likely to fail in nine out of 10 severe accidents, such as a core meltdown. Commission experts said Thursday, however, that the chances of failure were now believed to be much lower, although they said there was wide disagreement on exact odds. Lando W. Zech, the NRC chairman, said, ``We should take our time'' in deciding whether to require the changes to 24 of the nation's 110 operating reactors. He suggested that pressure to act quickly could lead to new safety problems. ``We want to improve safety, not detract from it,'' he said. Anti-nuclear groups have called for quick action to improve safety at the Mark I facilities. ``The way it looks now, I don't see them (the NRC) doing anything,'' Kenneth Boley, a nuclear safety analyst at the anti-nuclear group Public Citizen, said in an interview after the commission meeting. Among the modifications recommended by the NRC staff is the installation of hard pipe vents that would relieve severe pressure resulting from damage to a reactor core. Stello said four or five of the 24 Mark I facilities already have the improved their venting systems. He did not say which plants were involved. The commission staff also called for the provision of an alternate water supply with pumping capability independent of the normal and existing emergency power system. It also said emergency procedures and training should be improved. Here are the 24 reactors with Mark I containments: _Browns Ferry (three reactors), Decatur, Ala., owned by Tennessee Valley Authority. _Brunswick (two reactors), Southport, N.C., Carolina Power &amp; Light Co. _Cooper, Brownsville, Neb., Nebraska Public Power District. _Dresden (two reactors), Morris, Ill., Commonwealth Edison Co. _Quad Cities (two reactors), Cordova, Ill., Commonwealth Edison and Iowa Gas &amp; Electric Co. _Duane Arnold, Palo, Iowa, Iowa Electric Light &amp; Power Co. _Fermi 2, Laguna Beach, Mich., Detroit Edison Co. _Nine Mile Point 1, Scriba, N.Y., Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. _James A. Fitzpatrick, Scriba, N.Y., New York Power Authority. _Edwin I. Hatch (two reactors), Baxley, Ga., Georgia Power Co. _Hope Creek, Salem, N.J., Public Service Electric &amp; Gas Co. _Millstone 1, Waterford, Conn., Northeast Utilities. _Monticello, Monticello, Minn., Northern States Power Co. _Oyster Creek, Toms River, N.J., GPU Nuclear Corp. _Peach Bottom (two reactors), Peach Bottom, Pa., Philadelphia Electric Co. _Pilgrim, Plymouth, Mass., Boston Edison Co. _Vermont Yankee, Vernon, Vt., Vermont ankee Nuclear Power Corp. Both the Browns Ferry and Peach Bottom plants are not now operating.
<irrelevant> Legislation designed to reduce fossil-fuel pollutants that scientists say are creating the ``greenhouse effect,'' or global warming trend, was unveiled Wednesday by Sen. Timothy Wirth, D-Colo. Wirth said the measure would set strict goals to reduce certain gases, such as carbon dioxide, that prevent heat rays from escaping the Earth's atmosphere, thus raising global temperatures. ``The policy we are proposing today would have other economic benefits _ reducing oil imports, for example, and alleviating the U.S. trade deficit,'' said Wirth, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. The bill proposes studying ways to power automobiles and other motor vehicles with natural gas instead of the dirtier-burning gasoline and diesel. The bill, supported by a bipartisan group of 21 senators, also calls for reducing U.S. emissions of carbon dioxide by 20 percent by the end of the century by developing a national energy policy that stresses energy conservation and promotes the development of alternative and renewable energy sources. It addition, it calls for convening an international conference to adopt a binding climate-protection convention that would cut global emissions of carbon dioxide by 50 percent by the year 2015.
<irrelevant> President Bush's proposed tax breaks for oil drillers are winning an expected round of applause from the oil industry, but officials and analysts disagree over whether the measures will stem the decline in U.S. oil production. ``I don't think we're going to get that much more oil out of the United States even if these tax incentives were passed,'' said Ed Rothschild, assistant director of the Citizen-Labor Energy Coalition, an advocacy group that favors greater use of renewable energy sources as an alternative to fossil fuels. ``It's more of a political gesture to the industry'' than a plan for revitalizing domestic oil production, Rothschild said in an interview Friday. Industry officials said the proposed tax incentives, worth at least $350 million a year, would, if enacted, result in a measurable gain in oil and gas production. ``This is a very healthy step forward,'' said Jim Groninger, Washington director of governmental affairs for the Independent Petroleum Association of America. ``Tax incentives are an important component of a national energy policy.'' The tax breaks unveiled by Bush in his budget address Thursday to Congress were coupled with a postponement of lease sales for oil drilling off the California and Florida coasts _ areas the oil companies consider prime drilling prospects. Bush said he was seeking to balance environmental needs with a desire to revitalize the depressed oil and gas industry, which he called vital to U.S. national security. The American Petroleum Institute, representing the nation's major oil companies, welcomed the Bush tax incentives but said more steps would be needed, including opening up more federal lands and offshore areas to oil exploration. ``The tax incentives ... are a step in the right direction, but they alone cannot stem the serious decline in domestic petroleum production,'' said Charles J. DiBona, president of the petroleum institute. U.S. oil production has fallen by more than 1 million barrels a day over the past three years, and last December the oil production rate was the lowest in nearly a quarter of a century. At the same time, oil demand has increased in recent years, leading to a reliance on imports that Bush says poses security risks. Bush rejected the idea of imposing a tariff on imported oil but proposed four tax incentives aimed at boosting exploratory drilling, particularly by smaller operators. The tax breaks would be phased out if the price of oil, currently about $17 a barrel, rose above $21. The tax package includes: _A 10 percent credit on the first $10 million of spending, per company per year, on intangible drilling costs, those not directly associated with drilling a well, such as hauling equipment. _A 10 percent credit for spending on all new tertiary enhanced recovery projects, those that use steam, carbon dioxide or chemical injectants to increase the production rate from oil and natural gas fields. _Allow drillers to exclude a major part of their income from the alternative minimum tax. _Change oil and natural gas depletion rules that the administration says discourage the transfer of marginal wells from major oil companies to independent producers and result in the premature abandonment of producing wells. The administration said the tax package was aimed mainly at the smaller producers, which traditionally have drilled the majority of new wells in the United States.
</top>
<top>
<num> 85
<title> Official Corruption
<relevant> The archbishop of Managua condemned the human rights situation in Nicaragua Sunday during his New Year's Day mass, saying it has caused an exodus of professionals, workers and peasants. ``Will our Nicaraguan brothers continue to abandon the country in search of better horizons because here life is impossible?'' Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo asked in his homily to thousands gathered in front of the ruins of the metropolitan cathedral. The cathedral, like much of Managua, was destroyed in an earthquake shortly before the leftist Sandinistas took power in 1979 and has not been rebuilt. ``Will people continue to die in strange circumstances? Will kidnappings and manipulation of the pain of Nicaragua's mothers continue?'' he asked. The comment appeared to be a reference to charges published periodically in the opposition newspaper La Prensa that the leftist Sandinista government has committed human rights violations. ``No,'' Obando y Bravo exclaimed to loud applause. ``This year cannot be a copy of the one before because we are determined to make it something new.'' He did not elaborate. Obando y Bravo also attacked the government for limiting press freedom, saying there is no freedom of thought without freedom of the press. The government has shut down La Prensa several times and suspended broadcasts of several radio stations. The New Year's mass, part of a ``day of peace'' declared by Pope John Paul II and also a commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the Managua archdiocese, was broadcast on the Roman Catholic radio station Radio Catolica. Church spokesman Monsignor Bosco Vivas said other stations refused to carry the service. He did not say why, but other sources said they were acting under government orders. Obando y Bravo is a frequent and outspoken critic of the leftist government. He also heads a national commission that will oversee any peace accord reached by the government and the U.S.-backed Contra rebels. A cease-fire has been in place since March, but talks on a permanent end to the 8-year-old civil war broke down in September.
<relevant> Prosecutors in the Pentagon procurement investigation say an initial 27-count indictment is just the start of an expected wave of court activity in the prosecution phase of Operation Ill Wind. U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson of the Eastern District of Virginia said the pace of the investigation that began more than two years ago is moving with unprecedented speed, given the complexity of the case. ``In the next few months you will see a great deal of additional activity,'' he said. On Friday, a federal grand jury filed the first charges in the procurement case, accusing a defense contractor, a Navy employee and five other men with crimes including conspiracy, bribery and theft of government property. Hudson, who is leading the nationwide investigation into the Defense Department's $150 billion-a-year purchasing system, said the indictment ``strikes at the very heart'' of alleged corruption in the procurement process. Kenneth Walton, an FBI official, said the ``No. 1 priority'' of the bureau's white collar crime program is fraud in the Defense Department. The 86-page indictment focuses on activities alleged to have been undertaken by Teledyne Electronics of Newbury Park, Calif., a branch of Teledyne Inc. of Los Angeles, and three men: Navy procurement specialist Stuart E. Berlin and private consultants Fred H. Lackner and William L. Parkin, a former Navy acquisitions official. Specifically, the indictment charges that Teledyne and three of its officers agreed to pay Parkin $160,000 to assist them in obtaining a Navy contract related to radar worth $100 million. The indictment contends Parkin paid Lackner, a California-based private consultant, who ``in turn paid Stuart E. Berlin ... for his assistance in manipulating the procurement process to insure that the ... contract was awarded to Teledyne,'' Hudson said. Berlin participated in various decisions within the Navy affecting the contract and is accused of giving Teledyne advance information so the company could tailor its bids, Hudson said. If convicted of all charges, Berlin, Parkin and Lackner could face maximum penalties of 185 years in prison and fines of $5.5 million each, Hudson told a news conference. Teledyne faces a fine of up to $6.5 million. Also named in the indictment were Teledyne employees George H. Kaub, Eugene R. Sullivan and Dale Schnittjer. They could face confinement ranging between 50 and 85 years and fines of up to $2.5 million if convicted on all counts. The overall conspiracy charge says the defendants worked together to defraud the Navy and the Air Force, to bribe a public official, to make false statements and to commit wire fraud. In advance of the indictment, Teledyne's attorney, Thomas Patten, said the company had been offered a deal by the government but was unsatisfied with the terms. Attorneys for Parkin and Lackner have contended their clients did nothing wrong and would be vindicated in court. Before the indictment was returned, another company, Hazeltine, a division of Emerson Electric Co., agreed to plead guilty in U.S. District Court to conspiracy to defraud the United States, conversion of government property and making false statements to the government, company attorney Scott Muller said. Under terms of the agreement Hazeltine, which is cooperating with the government, agreed to pay fines of nearly $2 million, including court costs. Two former Hazeltine employees, Joseph Colarusso, 58, who was the company's senior vice president, and Charles Furciniti, 54, who was a marketing representative, also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to defraud the government and commit wire fraud. The maximum sentence they could face is five years in jail and a $250,000 fine. U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton set sentencing for March 17. Michael Savaides, 41, an employee of Teledyne Electronics, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. He, too, could be sentenced to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Prosecutors said those pleading guilty had agreed to cooperate with the government in exchange for reduced charges. All had a relationship with Parkin and Lackner, the consultants who allegedly paid bribes to Berlin. Investigators said Hazeltine hired Parkin to obtain inside information from Pentagon employees that would allow the company to compete for a $15.9 million contract for battlefield equipment. Hazeltine said in a statement that it ``has already taken additional steps to enforce its longstanding requirement of ethical business behavior and to guard against such incidents in the future.'' Federal agents used telephone wiretaps in the case, which was first made public last June when agents searched offices and homes of people suspected to be involved. At the Pentagon, defense officials said the Navy is ``reviewing all information released in connection with the indictments announced ... by the Justice Department to determine any necessary action regarding Navy programs, personnel, contractors or consultants.''
<relevant> The prosecution's request to drop the most sweeping and controversial Iran-Contra charges against Oliver L. North could make it easier to put the former presidential aide on trial, legal experts say. The most politically explosive charges, alleging a conspiracy to divert to Nicaraguan rebels $14 million in proceeds from U.S.-Iran arms sales, will be gone if the dismissal move by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh succeeds. But some experts say that would leave a ``lean and mean'' case against North, free of problems that have bogged down the proceedings for months. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell will decide whether to grant the dismissal motion. If he does, prosecutors will still be able to try the former National Security Council aide on 12 felony charges, including allegations that he shredded documents and lied both to Congress and a presidential inquiry in an effort to conceal his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair. ``The sex appeal part of this case is always the conspiracy,'' said Washington attorney Stanley Brand. ``But there is still a substantial case left.'' ``Lying to Congress and obstruction of justice are not small matters, if in fact that's what happened,'' said Brand, a former counsel to the House of Representatives. ``Lying to the Congress may be worse'' than actually diverting arms-sale proceeds to help the Contras at a time lawmakers had banned such assistance to the rebels, Brand said. ``The public's perception of this and what it says about the distribution of powers among the branches of government is as important to me as whether anybody goes to jail,'' he added. The remaining counts carry prison terms totaling 60 years. They include charges that North lied to Congress in 1985 and 1986 about his involvement in the covert Contra resupply operation. North also is accused of accepting installation of a $13,800 security fence around his suburban Virginia home, pocketing at least $4,300 in travelers checks from Contra leader Adolfo Calero and illegally using a tax-exempt foundation to raise money for the rebels. Other counts charge that North lied to Attorney General Edwin Meese III and destroyed official documents during the Nov. 20-23, 1986, presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Since the indictment was returned March 16, a number of federal prosecutors have privately criticized Walsh for bringing a broad conspiracy charge against North and his three co-defendants. These prosecutors questioned the wisdom of trying to criminalize the conduct of North, former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord. But many of these same prosecutors also supported the decision to charge North with destroying documents and lying to Meese. The Justice Department last fall filed a brief criticizing a legal theory Walsh used to support the conspiracy charge, saying it would set a dangerous precedent for prosecuting government officials whose conduct had not actually violated any laws. Brand rejected this criticism of Walsh's use of the conspiracy statute, a popular law among federal prosecutors in other cases. ``It was fine with those guys to use it against politicians when they thought it was in their interest,'' he said. Walsh successfully defended the legality of the charges he brought against North. Gesell refused to dismiss all but two of the 16 original charges. From the start, however, there was a problem about the conspiracy and theft charges. North's defense against the charges _ that he thought he was acting with President Reagan's permission _ hinged in part on highly secret information about covert operations. Gesell, meanwhile, stuck to his ruling that the prosecution must disclose more information than the Reagan administration wanted released in open court. That prompted Walsh on Thursday to seek dismissal of the key charges, a motion in all likelihood Gesell will grant at a hearing Monday. Walsh's decision prompted charges that the Reagan administration deliberately held back releasing some secrets to help scuttle the major charges against North. But Attorney General Richard Thornburgh defended the administration, noting that when Walsh informed him of the decision the independent counsel did not complain that the intelligence agencies had treated him unfairly. Reagan himself said Walsh's decision ``satisfies our problem, which has been concern.. about national security.'' North's lawyer, Brendan V. Sullivan Jr., said in a statement that ``although the heart of its case is destroyed, the independent counsel continues to toy with Col. North.'' Sullivan vowed to continue to press the secrecy issue on the remaining charges, stating that Walsh ``apparently refuses to recognize that classified information pervades the remaining charges as well.'' But Laurence Tribe, a Harvard University law professor who has done some work for Walsh's office, said the secrecy problems will be ``radically reduced'' once the conspiracy and theft charges are dismissed. Walsh will have ``a lean and mean version of the prosecution,'' Tribe said. ``With must of the most dramatic conspiracy and theft elements removed.. (Walsh) can proceed without the cloud of national security'' hanging over the case.
<relevant> Prosecutors say the investigation of Pentagon corruption, which took more than six months to yield its first indictments, is just getting started. None of the indictments issued in U.S. District Court on Friday involves high-ranking present or former military officials, but U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson said the continuing inquiry promises to be a protracted affair. One defense contractor, a Navy employee and five other men were indicted on charges that included conspiracy and bribery, while another corporation pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud the government. ``I think over the next few months, perhaps the next year, you'll see a great deal of additional activity,'' Hudson said Friday, adding that the initial round of indictments represented a ``small percentage'' of the case. ``It's a significant investigation and my assessment of its dimensions hasn't changed in the last six or seven months,'' he said. Prosecutors have subpoenaed more than 1 million documents and spent ``many, many hours'' before the grand jury, he said. The big-rigging investigation hinges on allegations that private consultants, hired by defense contracting firms, paid bribes to government employees for inside information that gave them an advantage in securing multimillion-dollar contracts. Hudson, who had once promised indictments in late fall, said he is satisfied with the pace of the complex case. ``I think if you'll compare this to others of its type ... this investigation is almost unprecedently quick,'' he said. Six months ago, President Reagan, declaring he was ``very upset'' about the reports of corruption in the Pentagon's $150-billion-a-year purchasing system, told law enforcement agents to move ``as rapidly as possible'' to get the facts on the case, said his spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater. And President-elect Bush said the allegations, if correct, showed people ``stealing from our national defense and undermining our national security.'' Although the investigation had been under way since September 1986, it was not made public until mid-June when the FBI issued search warrants at 38 locations and 12 states. Investigators used court-ordered wiretaps to gather much of their information. At least 20 defense contractors are under investigation, as well as six Pentagon officials and a number of consultants, among them Melvyn Paisley, former assistant secretary of the Navy for research, engineering and systems. Hudson has said no congressmen were targets of the investigation, although Rep. Roy Dyson, D-Md., and former Rep. William Chappell, D-Fla., were once described as being under scrutiny. No search warrants or subpoenas were issued to members of Congress or their staffs. Shortly after the investigation was revealed, Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci reassigned the six Pentagon officials under scrutiny. Then, based on information he received from court papers, he suspended payment on $1 billion worth of potentially tainted military contracts. The investigation has prompted calls in Congress to overhaul and procurement system at the Pentagon, which lets contracts worth $620 million daily. The first indictment named Teledyne Electronics of Newbury Park, Calif., a division of Teledyne Industries, three of its employees, two private consultants and a Navy procurement specialist. They will be arraigned Friday in U.S. District Court. Teledyne could be fined up to $6.5 million if convicted. At the heart of the indictment are charges that Teledyne and its officers agreed to pay consultant William Parkin $160,000 to assist them in obtaining a Navy contract worth $100 million. Parkin paid Fred Lackner, a California-based private consultant, who gave money to Stuart E. Berlin, a Navy procurement official, for his assistance in manipulating the procurement process, the indictment says. If convicted of all charges, Berlin, Parkin and Lackner could face maximum penalties of 185 years in prison and fines of $5.5 million each, Hudson said. At the same time, Hazeltine Corp., of Greenlawn, N.Y., a division of Emerson Electric Co., pleaded guilty among other things to conspiracy to defraud the government in its efforts to obtain a contract for radar testing devices. Hazeltine, which is cooperating with the government, agreed to pay fines and court costs of just under $2 million, a fee Hudson said he believed was ``appropriate.'' Two former Hazeltine employees and a Teledyne Electonics employee also pleaded guilty to lesser charges. They, too, are cooperating with the government. The Pentagon said it is reviewing the guilty pleas and the indictments to see what action should be taken.
<relevant> Another relative of ex-president Chun Doo-hwan has been arrested in a widening corruption inquiry that has disgraced the former ruler and embarrassed his successor. Prosecutors said Lee Kyu-seung, an uncle of Chun's wife, Lee Soon-ja, was imprisoned Friday and charged with taking about $730,000 in bribes from a businessman for selling influence. Prosecutors and legislators are investigating allegations of corruption, human rights violations, and other abuses under Chun and his authoritarian rule. Chun, a former general who took power with military backing in 1980, went into rural exile last month after making a public apology for abuses under his seven-year rule, which ended in February. President Roh Tae-woo, a former general and once a close ally of Chun, has distanced himself from Chun while asking the nation to forgive him. But opposition parties say they will not agree to a pardon for Chun unless he appears before a National Assembly inquiry. Opposition parties have demanded that Chun account for misdeeds by his associates and relatives. They are accused of extorting money from businesses, diverting government funds, selling influence and forcing political donations. Chun has denied any personal corruption, but some of his relatives and associates have been arrested or convicted of corruption. Last week, prosecutors arrested two former government ministers on corruption charges. It was the first arrest of ministers of Chun's administration. Prosecutors have promised to expand their case into suspected corruption involving former government officials and Chun's aides.
<irrelevant> Mrs. Thatcher was given to bluntly reminding her fellow Europeans in NATO or the European Economic Community of their reliance on U.S. military and diplomatic power. This has revived complaints that the British cling to old trans-Atlantic ties and are unenthusiastic Europeans. Reagan's style provoked amusement, concern or jibing among British opposition parties and in newspapers. But not even in strict confidence would Thatcher aides utter a word of criticism of the president. Reagan and Thatcher have disagreed on economic issues like the U.S. deficit, and she had misgivings about the missiles deal. But they're obviously fond of each other, call each other Ron and Margaret, and share some basic instincts, like their faith in the free market and a strong defense, and their hatred of socialism. ``You have restored faith in the American dream,'' Mrs. Thatcher told Reagan last summer when he paid a farewell presidential visit to Britain. He said of the British leader who has been in office throughout his two terms: ``We're very good friends and it is a friendship I treasure very much.'' WASHINGTON _ The Reagan administration looked as if it was going to come up empty on its southern Africa policies until Chester Crocker, the assistant secretary of state, pulled out an 11th hour peace agreement on Angola. Until Crocker, a former Georgetown University professor, helped negotiate the peace agreement last month, he was best known as the architect of the administration's policy of ``constructive engagement.'' It called for the United States to use diplomatic pressure to force the white-ruled government of South Africa to change its policies of racial segregation, called apartheid.. ``Constructive engagement,'' no longer part of the State Department's official lexicon, was not a success. South Africa's policies remain virtually the same, with blacks denied political and social rights. In the United States, ``constructive engagement'' was the target of criticism and ridicule. And opponents of South Africa mounted a campaign which resulted in legislation in 1986 providing for economic sanctions against the white regime. They provided for a ban on new investments, a prohibition on the import of certain South African products and the suspension of South African commercial landing rights in the United States. Reagan's veto of the sanctions was overridden decisively. In Angola, where the Reagan administration and South Africa had supported rebels seeking to overthrow the Cuban-backed Marxist government, Crocker was more successful. After months of mediating delicate negotiations, South Africa, Cuba and Angola signed an agreement under which Angola pledged to send home 50,000 Cuban troops posted in Angola. At the same time, South Africa granted independence to South-West Africa, the continent's last colony. It will become the black-ruled nation of Namibia. In sum, it was a mixed record for the Reagan administration. _By Joan Mower WASHINGTON _ With U.S. encouragement, much of Latin America has undergone an unprecedented political transformation from dictatorship to democracy over the past decade but the region is nonetheless worse off economically now than when the generals were in charge. Reagan and Shultz have repeatedly hailed the democratic development in the hemisphere. Nonetheless, the same economic forces that swept the dictatorships from power during the 1980's are now threatening the emerging democracies. In some countries, the possibility of a military coup is not ruled out. As Reagan leaves office, the potential political and economic consequences of continued stagnation, partly the result of the region's huge foreign debt, could become one of the major hemispheric challenges for the new administration. President-elect Bush has called for a ``major review'' of existing policy on debt, the centerpiece of which is the so-called Baker plan, named for former Treasury Secretary and Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker III. The plan calls for economic reforms in the debtor countries and new public and private lending from the developed countries to meet their capital needs. But lending has been far below what had been expected when the plan was unveiled three years ago. Hemispheric countries over the past five years have shelled out more than $120 billion in debt repayments than they have received in new loans. Repayments on the region's $420 billion debt have meant that decades of hard-won gains for some countries have been wiped out. The region has been denied capital needed for investment and imports vital for production have been cut back sharply. Inflation and high unemployment are rampant. The list of countries which have made the shift to democracy or are in the process of doing so since 1979 is impressive: Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. But in virtually all of these countries, the popular base of the incumbent administrations has been eroding, reflecting the difficulty they have in dealing with the consequences of excessive borrowing in the past. Increasingly, Latin leaders see debt relief as perhaps the only way their countries can restore economic growth and to prevent yet another lost decade. _By George Gedda WASHINGTON _ Reagan's departure coincides with the start of a six-year term by a new Mexican president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, offer both countries a fresh opportunity for a more harmonious relationship. Reagan met frequently with former Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid and the two got along well but the same cannot be said for officials at the lower level. The two governments disagreed sharply over Central America, particularly Nicaragua, where Mexico was viewed by administration officials as perhaps the most stalwart non-communist backer of the leftist Sandinista government. Elliott Abrams, the outgoing assistant secretary of state for Latin America, concedes that the ``ideological tone'' of Mexico's foreign policy over the years left the administration ``very unhappy.'' U.S. officials angered Mexico by suggesting that official corruption was hampering that country's drug enforcement efforts. Mexico felt the Reagan administration failed to appreciate the sacrifices its security forces made to come to grips with the drug issue. Drugs remain a potent issue. Mexico is believed to provide 30 percent of the marijuana and 40 percent of the heroin reaching this country. Immigration is another divisive issue. The Reagan administration maintained that unwise Mexican economic policies forced millions of Mexicans to cross the border illegally. Mexico's view is that the immigration is the result of the U.S. demand for cheap labor, which it claims American policies fail to take into account. On the economic front, Mexico has maintained that paying the interest on its $107 billion foreign debt makes growth impossible. When Bush takes office, Mexico will be eagerly awaiting some sign that he will be amenable to a policy under which Mexico's debt servicing obligations might be matched to its payment capacity. Mexico has felt for years that its debt is the primary cause for a steady decline in Mexican living standards during the 1980s. _By George Gedda
<irrelevant> More than two years after federal agents launched an investigation into Pentagon fraud, a federal grand jury is poised to return the first indictment, a prosecutor's office said Thursday. Henry Hudson, the U.S. attorney in nearby Alexandria, Va., has scheduled a news conference for Friday in the expectation the grand jury will return an indictment, according to his spokeswoman, Sharon Dibbley. Defense attorneys, none of whom wanted their names used, have speculated that indictments in ``Operation Ill Wind'' could come this week. Some companies and employees named in the investigation are known to be trying to work out a plea bargaining arrangement. The nationwide defense probe, started in the fall of 1986, revolves around allegations that defense contractors and consultants bribed Pentagon officials for contracting details vital to winning contracts worth billions of dollars. The Pentagon purchasing system lets about $150 billion dollars in contracts annually.
<irrelevant> In a speech marking the 30th anniversary of his rise to power, Fidel Castro seemed intent on erasing any doubts about the stability of Cuban-Soviet relations or the state of his revolution. It was a back-to-basics speech Wednesday, with strong attacks on the Reagan administration and ringing praise for the Soviet Union and Cubans for sacrifices made in the building of socialism. As Castro described it, the revolution has turned a corner. Two years ago, the Cuban leader was unhappy with evidence of laziness and corruption, but on Wednesday night, before tens of thousands of people, he said he detected a new spirit of dedication. Those honored at the ceremony included eight workers who Castro said contributed thousands of hours of volunteer work for a huge exhibit of the revolution's achievements in social and economic development. One the workers had been known to work 30 hours at a stretch, Castro said. His colleages wanted him to go home, but ``who was going to stop him?'' the president asked. The exhibit, known as ``Expocuba,'' opened Thursday with 45 pavilions focusing on Cuban innovations in science, technology and other fields. ``We respect the paths others take in the construction of socialism,'' Castro said, seemingly dismissing as inconsequential the deepening contrasts between the Cuban and Soviet systems. His prior criticism of liberal reforms introduced by Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev had touched off speculation about a possible loosening of ties between the two countries. But Castro went out of his way to praise Soviet policies on detente and disarmament and said the two countries see eye-to-eye on the international debt and trade. ``We will never forget the (Soviet) support received in decisive moments,'' he said. In the past year and a half, there has been modest improvement in U.S. relations with Cuba, but on Wednesday night the Cuban leader sounded much like the Castro of old in his remarks about the United States. A slight chill fell over the crowd when Castro touched on this subject. It was near the end of his nearly three-hour oration, and with dusk long past, many in the audience huddled together for warmth. Curiously, Castro omitted criticism of the U.S. downing of two Libyan fighter planes Wednesday over the Mediterranean. But he assailed the Reagan administration's threats to destroy a Libyan plant the United States says is intended to produce chemical weapons. It was shortly after this that the chief U.S. representative in Cuba, Jay Taylor, rose from his seat in the diplomatic section and walked out. Castro warned that the United States may be embarked on a policy of aggression against Third World countries under the cover of detente with Moscow. He also indicated it may be time to reform the United Nations to dilute the power of the five members of the Security Council, who each have veto power. The five are the United States, the Soviet Union, China, Britain and France. It is unjust for Britain, a country of 50 million, to have veto power while no such authority is given India, which has 880 million people, Castro said. He said 4 billion people live in the Third World but the current U.N. structure leaves power in the hands of countries that represent a minority of the global population. Castro mentioned the U.N. issue in expressing concern over a U.S.-led move in the Security Council to reduce, because of financial considerations, the number of U.N. forces who will oversee the transition in Namibia to independence from South Africa. George Gedda, a diplomatic correspondent based in Washington, has visited Cuba 15 times since 1974.
<irrelevant> The FBI is investigating a General Electric admission that test records may have been falsified at a factory which made parts for the engine that failed on a jetliner in England, according to court documents and federal officials. The Seattle factory which made parts for the CFM56 engine used by the Boeing 737 also manufactured a check and flow valve for the F404 engine aboard the Navy's FA-18 fighter, GE spokesman Richard Kennedy said Wednesday. A letter from a GE attorney last year said test records may have been falsified for the fighter plane valves. Papers filed by the office of the U.S. attorney in Cincinnati said the FBI is investigating that case. Forty-four people died in the Boeing 737 crash, in which the crew apparently turned off the right engine after the left engine failed for unexplained reasons. The investigation of the crash is continuing. The timer valve manufactured by GE for the CFM56 engine on the 737 could not have caused the turbine to fail even if the valve malfunctioned, Kennedy said in telephone interview from his office in Cincinnati. However, GE attorney Robert C. Anderson said in a letter dated June 2, 1988, that: ``In late May 1988, it was discovered that prior to July 1987, a particular flow leak check, which is required by GEAE (General Electric Aircraft Engine) specifications, was not performed on the F404 check and drain valves.'' ``It is believed that the test was discontinued sometime in 1983, possibly as a result of the test fixture becoming broken,'' Anderson said the letter, obtained by The Associated Press. ``The test was reinstituted in July 1987 when the problem was detected by lower level personnel in the plant,'' the letter said. ``During the period involved, it is also believed that operators may have falsified internal test records which are maintained to reflect actual test readings,'' Anderson said in the letter. Anderson's letter does not indicate the total number of engines or their value, but said that the deliveries covered the periods of April-May 1984, April-May 1985, April-May 1986, and April-May 1987. Navy spokeswoman Lt. Nettie Johnson said that the F404 was used in the FA-18 fighter, but was unable to say immediately whether the aircraft had experienced problems from faulty check and drain valves. Defense Department officials said they had received Anderson's letter as part of what they called a ``voluntary disclosure program'' for companies that believe they have not met the terms of their contracts. The inspector general's office in the Pentagon, in conjunction with the FBI, is investigating the admissions in the letter, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``In nearly every instance of voluntary disclosure, an investigation follows,'' said one source who was familiar with the case. ``Falsifying records falls into the area of product substitution, in which the government pays for something to be tested, and it is not tested.'' James Helmer, an attorney representing the former manager of the GE plant, said his client had been questioned in connection with the investigation last Oct. 14 by two FBI agents and a representative of the Air Force. Helmer's client, Anthony L. Divencenzo, filed suit against General Electric last year on behalf of the government, seeking to recover damages for more than 2,000 F404 engines that Helmer said were delivered without inspection. At the request of the Justice Department, all documents in the Divencenzo suit remained under seal until last Friday, when U.S. District Court Judge Carl Rubin denied a federal motion to allow the Justice Department until Feb. 1 to decide whether to join the case as a plaintiff. The motion, filed by Assistant U.S. Attorney Gerald F. Kaminski, said ``the investigation of the allegations set forth in the complaint that is being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation is not complete due to the factual complexities involved in the case.'' ``While the criminal investigation may take substantially longer to conclude, it is anticipated that the FBI will obtain sufficient information to determine whether or not it will intervene herein,'' said the federal motion. The Justice, Defense and Navy Departments will require another week to review that information, the motion said. Michael Crites, U.S. attorney for Cincinnati, declined to diclose further details of the investigation or indicate when the government would decide whether to intervene. ``I can't say anything more than what was in that motion, which is a matter of public record,'' Crites said in a telephone interview. Asked when the government would make its decision, Crites said: ``I don't have a timetable on it.''
<irrelevant> The commander of U.N. observers monitoring the Cuban troop withdrawal from Angola said Wednesday he is satisfied he will be able to verify their departure independently, despite South Africa's reservations. ``I think there will be no difficulties in carrying this assignment out,'' Brazilian Gen. Pericles Ferreira Gomes told reporters who asked about the abilities of his 10-nation team of 70 military and 20 civilian observers. Also in Luanda on Wednesday, Jesse Jackson said the United States has a moral obligation to support the peace process it has mediated in Angola, instead of destabilizing the government by backing right-wing rebels. Ferreira Gomes said the success of his 27-month mission depends on the good will of the Angolan and Cuban governments, which are to supply precise numbers of Cuban troops in the country. South African Foreign Minister Roelof ``Pik'' Botha has expressed doubts about relying on Angolan and Cuban figures. On Dec. 22, the three countries signed a U.S.-brokered agreement for the phased withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola, paving the way for the independence of the South African-controlled territory of Namibia, also called South-West Africa. Cuba first sent troops to Luanda in 1975 to support President Jose Eduardo dos Santos' Angolan Popular Liberation Movement in its fight against South African-backed rebels of UNITA, the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola. UNITA, which has about 25,000 fighters, was not party to December's agreement and says it will continue attacking government troops. On Tuesday, a symbolic contingent of 450 Cubans departed by plane for Havana. U.N. observer Col. Arvid Geirulv of Norway said they were followed Wednesday by 1,000 more troops on a Soviet ship. Under the agreement, 3,000 Cuban troops are to have left by April 1. Ferreira Gomes said he was informed all 3,000 will be gone by Sunday. He said 50,000 was the ``basic figure'' for the number of Cuban troops to be withdrawn, but Angola and Cuba are to furnish exact figures once the observer mission is officially established April 1. All the troops are to be out by mid-1991. ``We don't have the information about with what regularity the Cubans rotate their troops,'' he said, ``but we are certain they will all be withdrawn.'' Asked about UNITA claims that some Cuban troops have been granted Angolan citizenship to enable them to remain in the country, he said his mission was to verify numbers of troops withdrawn, not nationalities. He said the unarmed observer force would check the number of troops actually departing from four ports and one airport against lists furnished by the Cubans and Angolans. The general said Angola's government is committed to providing transport to U.N. observers, who have a mandate to travel anywhere in the country. But land mines and the guerrilla presence makes road travel difficult in most of this country 14 times the size of Portugal. ``If we get information from whatever source that there are Cuban troops where they should not be, we are authorizied to send in verification teams,'' said Ferreira Gomes. At a joint news conference Wednesday, U.S. civil rights leader Jackson and President dos Santos stressed the importance of Washington establishing diplomatic relations with Angola as soon as possible. ``Only the United States, Israel and South Africa have not recognized Angola since its independence from Portugal in 1975,'' said Jackson. ``It's time for the U.S. to get up to date.'' In an interview later, he asked: ``How can we on the one hand mediate the agreement between Angola, Cuba and South Africa, and then on the other hand permit ourselves to arm UNITA and destabilize the government? ``There should be a joint venture with the U.S. and Africa rather than a misadventure with South Africa.'' Jackson was ending a five-nation African tour that included Gabon, Nigeria, Zimbabwe and Zambia.
</top>
<top>
<num> 86
<title> Bank Failures
<relevant> The government agency that safeguards bank deposits is in the hotel and restaurant business. It's the phantom landlord of several office towers, shopping centers, polo grounds, a sewage plant and a 78-acre thoroughbred horse farm. What does the Federal Deposit Insurance Co. know about changing bedsheets, flipping hotcakes, treating sludge or saddling horses? Nothing. The FDIC inherited these properties after rescuing a spate of insolvent banks over the years, and it's now auctioning them off en masse to investors worldwide. Banking experts say the agency could be involved in many more of these auctions in the not-so-distant future if President Bush's plan for solving the nation's savings and loan crisis proceeds as planned. Bush proposes to restructure the thrift regulatory system by giving the FDIC the added responsibility of insuring S&amp;Ls, currently the job of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. The change would pass on to the FDIC the authority of handling repossessed thrift assets, including real estate. The Federal Asset Disposition Association, a subsidiary of FSLIC, says it alone manages 2,400 FSLIC property assets in 33 states with an appraised value of $3.8 billion _ most the result of bad loans made by hundreds of failed thrifts over the years, half of which were in the Southwest. Among the properties: a 497-acre safari park in Branson, Mo. For now, though, the FDIC has its own white-elephant properties to contend with. About $84 million worth, or 20 percent of the FDIC's current real estate portfolio, will be sold this Thursday in a venture with the auctioneer Christie's and the real estate firm Cushman &amp; Wakefield. The event marks the first large-scale real estate auction for the FDIC and only the second real estate auction for Christie's, which is better known for pitching multimillion dollar art collections and rare jewels, not empty motels. Arthur F. Lorentzen Jr., assistant director of the FDIC's Division of Liquidations, said the agency previously had disposed of real estate holdings through smaller regional auctions or sealed bids sales. He said the Christie's auction exposes the select properties to a wider range of potential investors. On the block are 25 of the FDIC's largest properties, located in Alaska, Florida, New Mexico, California, Tennessee and Texas, where bank failures have been increasing. The auction targets range in value from a Houston apartment complex worth around $650,000 to a 23-story office tower in Knoxville, Tenn., worth around $24 million. A few had been owned directly by the problem banks while others were turned over to them as a result of loan defaults, Lorentzen said. When banks fail, the FDIC steps in to protect the deposits, then tries to sell some or all of the assets to a healthy institution. Sometimes it ends up with properties it doesn't want. A record 217 banks failed in 1988, up from 184 the previous year, with many of them victims of depressed economies in the agricultural and sunbelt regions. Some of the properties inherited by the FDIC remain shut down, such as the 172-room Skyway Motel in St. Petersburg, Fla., which the FDIC received after local Park Bank failed on Feb. 14, 1986. Others remain open for business, like the 192-room Howard Johnson's motel and restaurant in Knoxville, Tenn., once the responsibility of City and County Bank, which failed May 27, 1983.  ``We don't run them ourselves,'' Lorentzen said. ``We hire people to do that. ``Anything we have it's our goal to put it back in the private sector. Our main function is to insure deposits.'' The upcoming auction list includes about a dozen land parcels, three motels, two shopping centers, 10 apartment complexes and five office buildings. Earl Reiss, executive vice president for Cushman and Wakefield, said that domestic response has been good so far but interest from foreign investors hasn't been as strong. Among the more unusual items: _T&amp;J Stables, based in Stevinson, Calif., a 78-acre thoroughbred horse boarding, breeding and training facility. Horses not included. Valued at between $575,000 and $775,000. _The Retama Polo Center and adjacent tract, located on 596 acres in Selma, Texas. The parcel includes 16 polo fields, a 3,776-seat grandstand, horse stables, a veterinarian's clinic and apartments. Valued at between $7.5 million and $10.5 million. _The 23-story Riverview Tower, one of the biggest buildings in Knoxville, Tenn. Valued at between $20 million and $24 million. _Sarasota International Trade Center, a water and waste-water treatment plant in Sarasota, Fla., valued at between $900,000 and $1.3 million.
<relevant> Federal regulators said Wednesday they had seized control of most of MCorp, an $18 billion, Dallas-based bank holding company, pumping in $300 million in what will likely become the third largest commercial bank rescue ever. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. packaged 20 MCorp subsidiary banks into a new, government-owned institution with $15.4 billion in assets and $11.6 billion in deposits. Left alone were five still-solvent subsidiary banks and a trust company. L. William Seidman, chairman of the FDIC, which insures commercial bank deposits up to $100,000, said the agency will seek buyers for the new institution. He declined to estimate how much government aid will ultimately be required, saying he did not want to reveal the figure to potential bidders. Private analysts have said they expect the failure will cost the FDIC, already depleted by a post-Depression record of 221 bank failures last year, $1 billion to $2 billion. That would make the transaction the third most costly commercial bank rescue, after Continental Illinois of Chicago in 1984 and First RepublicBank of Dallas in 1988, which required initial government pledges of $4.5 billion and $4 billion, respectively. Both, like MCorp, were holding companies. The FDIC insurance fund suffered its first loss ever in 1988, declining from $18.3 billion to $14 billion. Seidman said the fund should break even this year, even with spending for MCorp. As part of legislation to bail out the savings and loan industry, President Bush is proposing to build up the commercial bank insurance fund by nearly doubling the deposit insurance premium paid by banks. Earlier this year, when the FDIC was trying to sell MCorp in its entirety, the agency had set an April 3 deadline for offers, but Seidman said that may be extended. ``We are going to proceed with the sale as promptly as possible,'' he said. In Dallas, MCorp said the five remaining banks and the trust subsidiary ``form the nucleus of a new beginning for MCorp,'' which intends to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. ``While the nature of MCorp has been altered dramatically, a solid, healthy core remains,'' Chairman Gene H. Bishop said. Seidman said the failed banks opened for business today and ``as far as the customers are concerned it will be business as usual.'' MCorp, which has 86 offices, lost $903 million from its banking operations last year. It is the last of the large Texas banks needing to be recapitalized, either through federal rescue or private merger. The bulk of the assets were in the subsidiaries in Dallas, $6.4 billion, and Houston, $3.2 billion. Until last year, many analysts had thought MCorp, which had not invested as heavily in energy projects as other Texas banks, might survive. But heavy losses on real estate loans evenutally dragged it under. Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke, the chief regulator of nationally chartered banks, said the failures were triggered by demands beginning Monday on the lead bank in Dallas, both from depositors and from the other banks in the holding company. On Tuesday, ``it became clear as the day wore on that the (Dallas) bank was not going to be able to meet the demands of depositors,'' Clarke said. Five of the banks had been insolvent on their; 15 more failed after the Dallas bank could not meet their demands for deposits. The demands of all outside customers were met, he said. Federal action was complicated by the fact that regulators legally could not take control of the five MCorp subsidiary banks that remain solvent. A legal battle is developing between private creditors and the FDIC over assets held by the holding company. Regulators claim holding company assests should be used to defer federal costs in rescuing the insolvent subsidiary banks, but MCorp has resisted. Seidman declined to say how large the claim against the holding company is except that it is ``substantial.'' The insurance fund last year had been trying to force the holding company to inject $400 million into 18 of its banks. For future cases, the FDIC is seeking legislation from Congress that would permit it to force solvent subsidiary banks to back up sister institutions that fail. The FDIC's move came a week after creditors of MCorp forced it to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The holding company had halted payments on $466 million in debt last October but had asked creditors to refrain from pressing their claims while it attempted to work out an assistance agreement with the FDIC. The FDIC appointed James Gardner, chairman of MBank Dallas, as president of its new government-owned institution. The agency said it will seek a new chairman from outside the MCorp system. Reportedly among those interested in buying MCorp is A. Robert Abboud, chairman of Houston's First City Bancorporation, which was itself rescued by the FDIC in 1987 with $1 billion. Other likely bidders are Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., the Pritzker family of Chicago and a group led by Harry Gray, former chairman of United Technologies Corp. The 20 MCorp banks seized are MBank Abilene, MBank Alamo, MBank Austin, MBank Brenham, MBank Corsicana, MBank Dallas, MBank Denton County, MBank Fort Worth, MBank Greenville, MBank Houston, MBank Jefferson, MBank Longview, MBank Marshall, MBank Midcities, MBank Odessa, MBank Orange, MBank Round Rock, MBank Sherman, MBank Wichita Falls and MBank The Woodlands. The five banks remaining solvent are MBank Brownsville, MBank Corpus Christi, MBank Waco, MBank El Paso and MBank New Braunfels. A sixth subsidiary, MTrust Corp., also remains solvent.
<relevant> Federal regulators today seized control of 20 subsidiary banks of MCorp, Texas' second largest banking company, and pumped in $300 million in government money. The action put all but five MCorp subsidiary banks under government ownership. Regulators transferred $11.6 billion in deposits of the failed banks to a new, government-owned institution, Deposit Insurance Bridge Bank of Dallas. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures commercial bank deposits up to $100,000, said the failed banks opened for business today and service to customers would continue uninterrupted. ``As far as the customers are concerned it will be business as usual for all 20 banks,'' said L. William Seidman, chairman of the FDIC. Seidman would not estimate how much the government will ultimately have to spend to restore the banks to health, saying he did not want to reveal that figure to investors expected to bid on the banks. However, private analysts have said they expect the failure will cost the FDIC, already depleted by a post-Depression record 221 bank failures last year, $1 billion to $2 billion. That would make the transaction the third most costly commercial bank rescue, after First RepublicBank of Dallas in 1988 Continental Illinois of Chicago in 1984. ``We are going to proceed with the sale as promptly as possible,'' Seidman said, but he added that the agency may extend its April 3 deadline for offers. MCorp, which has 86 offices, lost $903 million last year. It is the last of the large Texas banks to needing to be recapitalized, either through federal rescue or private merger. In a statement today, MCorp said the five remaining banks and the trust subsidiary ``form the nucleus of a new beginning for MCorp'' which still intends to file for bankruptcy protection. ``While the nature of of MCorp has been altered dramatically, a solid, healthy core remains,'' Chairman Gene H. Bishop said. ``We are extremely pleased that this group of five MBanks had the strength and resourcefulness to withstand the incredible pressures of the economic downturn over the past several years.'' Regulators said the 20 insolvent banks had assets of $15.4 billion, including assets of $6.4 billion at the lead bank in Dallas and $3.2 billion at the next biggest subsidiary in Houston. The five remaining insolvent banks have assets of about $3 billion. Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke, the chief regulator of nationally chartered banks, the figure was triggered by demands beginning Monday on the lead bank in Dallas, both from depositors and from the other banks in the holding company. On Tuesday, ``it became clear as the day wore on that the (Dallas) bank was not going to be able to meet the demands of depositors,'' Clarke said. Five of the banks were insolvent standing on their own and the remaining 15 failed after the Dallas bank could not meet their demands for deposits. The demands of all outside customers were met, he said. Federal action was complicated by the fact that regulators legally could not take control of the five MCorp subsidiary banks that remain solvent. The move against the 20 has triggered a battle over assets held by the holding company. Regulators maintain that holding company assests should be used to defer federal costs in rescuing the insolvent subsidiary banks, but MCorp has resisted that. ``The FDIC intends to pursue potential claims against MCorp for liabilities and obligations of MCorp to the 20 subsidiary banks that were closed,'' the agency said in a statement. Seidman, the FDIC chairman, declined to say how large the claim against the holding company is except to say it is ``substantial'' and ``material.'' Since last year, the insurance fund had been trying to force the holding company to inject $400 million into 18 of its banks. For future cases, the FDIC is seeking legislation from Congress that would permit it to force solvent subsidiary banks to back up sister institutions that fail. The FDIC's move came a week after creditors of MCorp forced it to seek protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. The holding company had halted payments on $466 million in debt last October but had asked creditors to refrain from pressing their claims while it attempted to work out an assistance agreement with the FDIC. Reportedly among those interested in buying MCorp is A. Robert Abboud, chairman of First City Bancorporation in Houston, which was itself rescued by the FDIC in 1987 with $1 billion. Other likely bidders are Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co., the Pritzker family of Chicago and a group led by Harry Gray, former chairman of United Technologies Corp. The 20 MCorp banks seized today were: MBank Abilene, MBank Alamo, MBank Austin, MBank Brenham, MBank Corsicana, MBank Dallas, MBank Denton County, MBank Fort Worth, MBank Greenville, MBank Houston, MBank Jefferson, MBank Longview, MBank Marshall, MBank Midcities, MBank Odessa, MBank Orange, MBank Round Rock, MBank Sherman, MBank Wichita Falls and MBank The Woodlands. The five remaining solvent banks are MBank Brownsville, MBank Corpus Christi, MBank Waco, MBank El Paso and MBank New Braunfels. A six subsidiary, MTrust Corp., also remains solvent. All creditors and depositors, even those with accounts higher than the $100,000 insurance limit, are fully protected at all of the failed banks, except the subsidiary in Abilene. Depositors with more than $100,000 in that institution will have to pursue a claim against the bank and may lose a portion of their uninsured funds. The FDIC appointed James Gardner, chairman of MBank Dallas, as president of its new government-owned holding company. It said it will seek a new chairman from outside the MCorp system.
<relevant> The government locked the doors of the Guardian Bank of Hempstead Wednesday morning and federal investigators said they would seek evidence of criminal behavior in the bank's failure. While FBI agents executed search warrants to look for evidence of fraud, 80 staffers from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. began the work of liquidating the bank and preparing checks for federally insured depositors, federal authorities said. In a related action, the Government National Mortgage Association ousted New York Guardian Mortgagee Corp. from GNMA's program of mortgage-backed securities. Louis Gasper, executive vice president of GNMA, said his agency declared the New York Guardian in default and took over its multibillion-dollar portfolio because investors were not being fully paid. Gasper said beginning next month investors will be paid in full and on time and those shortchanged in the past would be reimbursed. ``We believe there will be substantial losses that the government will have to make up here and we will do so promptly,'' he said. U.S. Attorney Andrew Maloney said investigators obtained search warrants based on allegations of self-dealing and misuse of bank resources. They cited transactions made by Louis B. Bernstein, president of New York Guardian and the largest shareholder of Guardian Bank. Maloney said that among the allegations was that Bernstein was involved in a sham divestiture in which $5.4 million was improperly transferred from New York Guardian to Mebco Bank of Geneva. The Swiss bank than lent $5 million to LBB Co., a company owned by Bernstein, and LBB bought New York Guardian and another Guardian Bank subsidiary, Guardian Diversified Services Inc., for $1 million. Alan Whitney, spokesman for the FDIC, said an announcement would be made in a few days about when checks covering insured deposits would be issued to the bank's 12,000 depositors. All deposits are insured by the government up to $100,000. Customers with accounts of more than $100,000 will receive $100,000 and a certificate for the balance that represents a claim against whatever assets remain after the bank liquidation, Whitney said. The bank was declared insolvent by Dean S. Marriott, senior deputy comptroller of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Guardian Bank came under the scrutiny of the comptroller's office in 1984 because of what the government described as deteriorating asset quality, poor earnings and declining capital. Despite prodding to correct the problems, the losses continued and the bank went under with assets of $420 million and deposits of $390 million, Maloney said. Guardian Bank was founded in 1973 as Vanguard National Bank, a minority-owned company. Other stockholders took control in a proxy fight in 1976 and in 1979 Bernstein bought the bank, merged it with his mortgage company and changed its name.
<relevant> Banc One Corp. of Columbus, Ohio, agreed Wednesday to take over 20 failed banks of MCorp, a Dallas holding company, in what analysts believe will be the third largest commercial bank escue in the nation's history. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. announced that Banc One will be the new owner of the MCorp banks but refused to discuss details of the transaction before a news conference on Thursday. However, private analysts believe the deal will involve a federal infusion of about $2 billion. If the analysts are correct, MCorp will become the third biggest bank failure, ranking behind Continental Illinois of Chicago in 1984 and First RepublicBank of Dallas in 1988, which required initial government pledges of $4.5 billion and $4 billion respectively. The FDIC, which insures commercial bank deposits, said that Banc One will assume management of the failed banks effective July 5 and its chairman, John B. McCoy, will assume the chairmanship of the MCorp banks under the name of Bank One Texas. FDIC spokesman Alan Whitney said Banc One agreed in principal to invest $500 million in the new Texas operation. He declined to say how much the government is injecting. The deal likely will become final in four to six weeks, he said. Banc One's vice president for acquisitons, Bill Boardman, said in Columbus it was not clear how much federal help or overall funds the deal would require. The bank has made an estimate of the cost, which he declined to disclose. The FDIC will take over problem loans and ``bring the balance sheet to a zero position,'' he said. Banc One, he added, will manage Banc One Texas for 120 days, identifying the problem loans and inflated assets, before the purchase is completed. Banc One, the 25th largest banking company in the nation with $25.3 billion in assets, has pioneered retail innovations and has been one of the five most profitable banks every year since 1984. It was one of the first banks to offer automated tellers and it has been a leader in packaging credit card debt into securities for sale to investors. It allocates more of its earnings to research and development than most banks. Unlike other large banks, it has shunned participating in corporate buyout deals. Instead, its bread and butter has been credit cards, auto leasing and student loans. Still, it's had some missteps. An effort to create a computerized home banking network fizzled. With the Texas acquisition, Banc One obtains an extensive branch network with offices in Abilene, Austin, Houston, Fort Worth, Dallas and other cities in the state. Since March 29, the failed MCorp banks have been government owned, operating under the name of The Deposit Insurance Bridge Bank, Dallas. That new entity was formed when regulators declared 20 MCorp subsidiaries insolvent, leaving five subsidiary banks still operating under the private ownership of the original holding company. Among the other prominent bidders for the failed MCorp banks were NCNB Corp., based in Charlotte, N.C., which bought First RepublicBank last year; Chemical Banking Corp., the nation's sixth largest banking company; First City Bancorp of Houston, itself the recipient of $1 billion federal bailout in 1987; and the New York-based leveraged buyout firm, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. Early on, San Francisco's Wells Fargo &amp; Co. had also been interested in the deal, but did not bid. In a written statement, FDIC Chairman L. William Seidman said only that Banc One had been selected in ``a highly competitive process'' from among ``attractive proposals.'' Kohlberg Kravis said in a statement, ``We are extremely disappointed. We've spent an enormous amount of time, resources and effort on this matter.'' It noted that its proposal would have maintained an independent bank in Texas. Buddy Kemp, chairman of NCNB Texas, the new name of First RepublicBank, said his company was disappointed with the FDIC's decision, but said, ``We remain committed to serving the Texas market by expanding our franchise throughout the state.'' Analysts have blamed MCorp's failure on the collapse of the energy market, even though the bank had focused more on real estate loans rather than energy loans. The collapse of oil prices earlier in the 1980s snowballed into a real estate bust and a regional recession in the Southwest. Seidman has said that MCorp is the agency's last major commercial bank problem remaining. However, the FDIC also is reviewing bids for National Bancorp. of Texas of San Antonio and Texas American Bancshares Inc. of Fort Worth, with combined assets of $7 billion. They are likely to be sold in a package requiring in the neighborhood of $500 million in government assistance. Last year, the FDIC reported a post-Depression record 221 bank failures and suffered its first loss since it was established in 1934, with reserves dropping from $18.3 billion to $14 billion. Seidman has said he expects the fund to begin rebuilding its reserves this year.
<irrelevant> L. William Seidman is a lot like a protective parent when it comes to the nation's banking funds. Nothing gets his guard up more than talk of a proposed matchup between his ``baby,'' the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures commercial bank deposits, and the wayward thrift insurer, the Federal Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corp. ``People keep telling us they have to get married, and we're looking at the bride very carefully,'' said Seidman, FDIC chairman for the past three years and one of the most forceful regulators in Washington. As he tries to help set the banking agenda for the Bush administration, Seidman (pronounced Seed-Mun) is blunt about his feelings on the thrift crisis and opposition to an FDIC-FSLIC merger, which some propose as a step toward solving FSLIC's money problems. Banks, though, worry such a merger will result in skyrocketing insurance premiums. ``There was a time when you could have merged the two. (But) a merger now will bankrupt the funds,'' Seidman said in an interview. Unlike the FDIC, FSLIC is technically insolvent due to the large number of problem-thrift bailouts. Last year alone, FSLIC spent $38.6 billion to help merge or sell 222 insolvent S&amp;Ls. Hundreds more remain financially shaky. Seidman proposes, among other things, that the government bite the bullet by spending another $30 billion in 1989 to close 100 of the sickest thrifts. The other problem S&amp;Ls could be dealt with over a longer period of time. He also wants the government to consider revamping the entire deposit insurance system to include new broad powers for his agency and splitting FSLIC from its parent, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. ``If I were advising the president I think he should do it (resolve the thrift crisis) early on in the honeymoon days ... when it's someone else's problem,'' he said. ``If he waits too long, it becomes his problem. It's not a politically attractive issue.'' Seidman's zeal is understandable. He had his own problems after taking the helm of the FDIC in October 1985, becoming its 14th chairman. For one thing, he inherited the fallout from Continental Illinois Corp.'s near demise a year before. During his tenure, Seidman has contended with more than 600 bank failures, including a post-Depression record 221 in 1988. The FDIC posted its first operating loss last year, although it remains firmly solvent, with a net worth of around $15 billion at the end of 1988. Seidman, 67, came to the job with surprising little banking experience. At the time of his appointment, he was dean of the College of Business at Arizona State University. Before that, he served as vice chairman at copper giant Phelps Dodge Corp. and a managing parter in the accounting firm Seidman &amp; Seidman, started by his father and uncle. His business acumen and investment savvy also have helped make him a millionaire many times over, and he has several homes around the country, including one in Hawaii. He shares some of his business smarts in a just-published book he co-authored, ``Competitiveness: the Executive's Guide to Success.'' Seidman also is no stranger to Republican politics. From 1974 to 1977 he served as assistant for economic affairs under President Ford, a childhood friend from his hometown Grand Rapids, Mich. From 1983 to 1984 he was co-chairman of the White House Conference on Productivity. He also ran an unsuccessful campaign to become Michigan auditor general in the 1960s. All that experience ``and my good looks,'' Seidman said, has helped in tackling the banking world. There have been some big issues to tackle, including: the Latin debt problem, the campaign to expand into investment banking, and lately, the debt-financed takeover craze, which Seidman warns could endanger big lending banks. ``My experience says that credibility is the No. 1 asset you have to have,'' Seidman said, ``and telling it like it is is the best way to deal with things.'' A free-market advocate, Seidman has been called a team player by those who know him well. But he's also not afraid to speak his mind. For instance, at the American Bankers Association annual convention in Honolulu last fall, a red-faced Seidman denounced the comptroller of the currency, Robert L. Clarke, who is on the board of the FDIC, for suggesting that commercial banks prepare for a possible FDIC-FSLIC merger. Just the day before the two men held a friendly, informal news conference. ``He (Seidman) feels very strongly that the resolution (of the thrift crisis) should not come on the backs of commercial banks,'' said James J. McDermott Jr., a banking analyst with the investment firm Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods. ``He has been a good steward for the industry at a time when the effects of deregulation (of the 1970s) have caused signficant turmoil as shown by the bank failures over the years. ``He has been a breath of fresh air.'' Short, stout and nearly bald, Seidman bares a slight resemblance to the late actor William Frawley, known as Fred Mertz on the ``I Love Lucy'' television series. He has the same gravelly voice. But he's far more physically active than the Mertz character was, enjoying polo and a variety of other sports _ and not as grouchy, especially to his six children and several grandchildren. ``He knows how to relax. It's a wonderful gift,'' said his wife, Sally. ``He could have a horrendous day and then he just forgets about it when he gets home.'' While at work, Seidman also tries to keep things informal, remaining accessible to banking analysts and the press. If it were up to him, he'd probably be wearing sweat shirts and casual slacks to work. Before attending a recent ABA dinner in Honolulu, ``He asked me, `Do you think I have to wear a suit and tie?','' Mrs. Seidman confided. ``And I said, `Yeah, you better.'''
<irrelevant> A top bank official says the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's dual role as regulator of the savings industry and promoter of home ownership has contributed to the wave of S&amp;L failures. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in commercial banks, said Wednesday the insurance fund for S&amp;Ls should be independent of the bank board. The primary goal of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., which insures deposits up to $100,000, is the safety and soundness of savings institutions, he said. However, the FSLIC's parent, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is also charged with creating, or chartering, S&amp;Ls to provide a steady flow of mortgage money to home buyers. ``There's a basic conflict between those two roles and I think it's very important that they be separated so that the insurer ... can protect his insurance fund and not allow institutions that operate in an unsafe and unsound manner to have insurance,'' Seidman told reporters at a luncheon to release a 408-page FDIC report, ``Deposit Insurance for the Nineties: Meeting the Challenge.'' He recommended a regulatory structure for S&amp;Ls similar to the system for banks. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, an arm of the Treasury Department, charters national banks, while the FDIC insures their deposits. The U.S. League of Savings Institutions, the industry's largest trade group, has not taken a position on separating the FSLIC from the bank board, but its chairman, B.R. Beeksma, said recently the question should be considered. The bank board's performance as a chartering agency may be suffering because it is consumed with the problems of the FSLIC, he said. The FDIC, which prepared the report for Congress, also recommended placing S&amp;L examiners under the FSLIC. Currently, the examiners work for the regional Federal Home Loan Banks, which lend money to S&amp;Ls, are owned by the industry and are controlled by boards composed of S&amp;L executives. The current system can have the effect of allowing S&amp;Ls with representatives on the regional bank boards to regulate their competitors, Seidman said. The FDIC made no recommendation on how money should be raised to pay for the S&amp;L crisis, but said it was clear that the federal government, rather than the S&amp;L industry or banks, will have to pay most of the $60 billion to $115 billion needed to restore S&amp;Ls to health. But, it said, ``concerns about the federal budget deficit could be mitigated by an off-budget financing arrangement'' in which the Treasury pays the interest on borrowing to finance the industry's rescue. The Treasury Department is preparing a recommendation for President-elect Bush and the new Congress. Meanwhile, the FDIC rejected proposals to curtail or eliminate federal deposit insurance, arguing that would increase the danger of bank runs. Some scholars say reducing or doing away with the insurance would force depositors to pay more attention to how well their institutions are run. The American Bankers Association said in a statement Wednesday that the current practice of protecting even depositors with funds in excess of the $100,000 insurance limit ``has become a license for abuse by some financial managers.'' But, Seidman said, ``In today's complex world, we think the depositor, both sophisticated and unsophisticated, would have great difficulty in knowing the condition of their banks on a day-to-day basis. ... We as bank regulators with thousands of supervisors have difficulty in keeping control of banks in terms of their exact financial condition.''
<irrelevant> Braniff Inc. announced a bold stroke designed to put the regional airline in closer competition with the nation's major carriers, saying it will acquire 50 Airbus Industrie A320 planes and has options to get another 50 in a deal valued at up to $3.5 billion. The deal announced Wednesday could nearly triple the fleet size of Braniff, a carrier with 53 jets that has endured three changes of ownership and a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. The move also represents one of the largest single orders for jets produced by Airbus, a European aircraft consortium that has emerged as a major competitor against Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. Borden Inc. put corporate raiders on notice that if an unwanted buyer tries to chop up the food and chemical giant, Borden's 25 top managers will quit en masse under an unusual takeover defense. ``We think any potential raider would think twice about losing that group at once,'' R.J. Ventres, Borden's chairman, said Wednesday. Borden already has a ``poison pill'' plan designed to fend off unwanted suitors. General Motors Corp. Chairman Roger Smith says the world's largest automaker expects to post a record profit for 1988. Speaking Wednesday at the annual auto show here, Smith declined to provide a specific figure. GM's previous record year was 1984, when the automaker posted earnings of $4.52 billion on sales of $83.89 billion. For 1987, GM had a profit of $3.55 billion on revenue of $101.78 billion. Smith also predicted the Big Three _ GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. _would earn a record $11 billion in 1988, but did not break it down by company. Conflicts built into the system of regulating savings institutions ought to be eliminated to help prevent a repeat of the current wave of S&amp;L failures, a top federal bank regulator said. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in commercial banks, said Wednesday the fund that insures S&amp;L deposits should be independent in the same way as his agency. Orders to U.S. factories for manufactured goods rose by a modest 0.3 percent in November, according to a government report that some economists said reflected continued but slower economic growth. The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that buyers placed orders worth a seasonally adjusted $227.7 billion during the month, up $630 million from October. Orders had risen 2 percent in October. The nation's chief tax collector has urged Americans to file returns early this year and said the IRS for its part will fully respect a new ``taxpayer bill of rights'' and try to provide filers better advice. Lawrence B. Gibbs, commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, said Wednesday that the taxpayer-rights bill is ``a good bill.'' The legislation requires the agency to fully inform taxpayers of their rights any time an audit is begun. Another provision extends the notice required before the IRS can seize property.
<irrelevant> U.S. banks are no longer threatened with failing because of uncollected Third World debts, the nation's top banking regulators said today. ``Most of the regional banks have put the LDC (Less Developed Countries) situation behind them,'' L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., told the House Banking Committee. ``While large LDC exposure by some major banks will be with us for years to come, at this time we cannot foresee any bank failures resulting from LDC exposure alone,'' Seidman said. Manuel H. Johnson, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said U.S. bank exposure to the 15 major Third World debtors declined by $8.6 billion between July 1987 and the same month last year to $76 billion. ``A disproiportionate share of this reduction was accounted for by large regional banks, as distinct from the largest multinational banks,'' Johnson said. ``Nonetheless, the top nine banks reduced their total exposure over the year by $2.6 billion (to $53 billion).'' He said small and regional banks have largely abandoned further international lending in developing countries and have reduced what exposure they had by selling or swapping the loans at discounts on secondary markets. The larger banks, he said, have not been willing to discount their loans to the Third World countries as much. Seidman said the nine major U.S. money center banks have reduced their outstanding loans to 31 less developed countries from $61 billion in December 1982 to roughly $55 billion as of last year. During the same period, he said, they have raised their aggregate primary capital from $32 billion to $65 billion. Meanwhile, the debt servicing capacity of the six largest borrowers _ Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, the Philippines and Venezuela _ well exceeds the 40 percent value the secondary market is putting on the loans, Seidman said. President-elect Bush promised last month to ``take a whole new look'' at Third World debt now estimated at $1.32 trillion, including loans from other countries and multinational institutions such as the World Bank. But former Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III, Bush's nominee to be the new secretary of state, and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady both declined an invitation to testify at today's hearing. The committee's new chairman, Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, said Wednesday he was disappointed but added he expects the administration to develop a policy quickly on what he called a ``growing crisis.'' Seidman and Johnson declined to characterize the situation as a crisis, saying there has been great progress since 1982 when Mexico suddenly stopped paying interest on its debt because of plummeting oil prices. At the time, some feared that the whole international banking system could collapse. The book value of loans from U.S. banks to Third World countries then was $139.7 billion and the banks had only $66.2 billion in capital to cover them if the countries defaulted. While the book value of the loans has fallen by $42 billion, banks have increased their capital to $139.7 billion, as of last June, the congressional General Accounting Office said Wednesday, greatly reducing their exposure. The GAO said a major component of the turnaround was $2.3 billion that regulators required the banks to set aside as special reserves and another $20 billion that banks have voluntarily set aside over the past year and a half to cover loan losses. However, that is not enough, the GAO said, estimating that $49 billion of loss reserves would more accurately reflect the diminished value of the loans. Meanwhile, the World Bank says Third World countries in 1988 paid out $43 billion more in servicing the debt than they received in new loans and investments from developed countries. ``Although the banks increased their reserves because they know they are not going to be repaid in full, they continue to insist on debt-service payments based on face value,'' the Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, a social policy counselor for the U.S. Catholic Conference, told the committee. The result of austerity programs to service the debt, Hehir said, is growing poverty, malnutrition and unemployment and _ because of cuts in health programs _ the reappearance of diseases thought to have been eradicated. ``Living standards in the 1980s have declined more than 25 percent in sub-Saharan Africa and 15 percent in Latin America, and both regions are deeper in debt than ever,'' he said. ``...All of this spells recession, leads Latin Americans in particular to question their leaders' economic strategy and breeds revolution.''
<irrelevant> The Commodity Futures Trading Commission on Thursday proposed new rules designed to make it easier for banks, investment houses and corporations to raise billions of dollars through a host of new investment products, such as bonds linked to the price of oil and bank deposits tied to the exchange rate of the dollar. By a 5-0 vote, the commission, which regulates futures and commodity options markets, proposed a rule and issued an interpretative letter removing some kinds of so-called ``hybrid instruments'' from CFTC regulation. Until now, the commission has granted about 15 case-by-case exceptions for hybrids that are predominantly a security or time deposit. The interpretative letter and proposed rule set out the standards for further exemptions from CFTC oversight. Commission Chairwoman Wendy L. Gramm said the new rules are aimed at removing the ``regulatory uncertainty'' that has discouraged the development of new products. However, she said, the rules do not mean hybrids will go unregulated. In the case of securities, the instruments must be regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In the case of bank deposits, the issuing institution must be regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. The rules do not provide an exception for instruments offered by savings institutions. ``Today's releases represent an attempt to provide some stability. ... They reduce regulatory duplications, but they also eliminate regulatory gaps,'' Ms. Gramm said. The interpretative letter takes effect immediately but is subject to change based on public comments offered in the next 45 days. The related regulation being proposed will be open for public comment for the same period and the commission must adopt a final version before it takes effect. Hybrid instruments combine the characteristics of debt securities such as bonds or bank time deposits with certain characteristics of futures or commodity options. Examples include a bank deposit with its principal indexed to the exchange rate of the dollar and Japanese yen or a corporate note with its yield tied to the price of gold or oil. Another kind of hybrid guarantees a set rate of return over inflation. Robert Mackay, the commission's chief of staff, speculated that many U.S. banks will take advantage of the new rules because starting Dec. 31 the Federal Reserve will allow them to offer deposit accounts in foreign currencies. He said corporations and financial institutions potentially could raise billions of dollars with hybrid instruments. Robert R. Davis, a CFTC member since 1984, said Thursday's action ``may represent the most significant actions taken by the commission during my tenure.''
</top>
<top>
<num> 87
<title> Criminal Actions Against Officers of Failed
<relevant> Like foxes guarding the chicken coop, some culprits in the savings and loan industry collapse may have been hired by the federal government to oversee billions of dollars in assets of failed thrifts, The Associated Press has learned. Two officials of failed thrifts who became regulators are now targets of criminal investigations, and a federal prosecutor says he's thinks there will be more. Most of the people hired to handle the billions of dollars' worth of property and loans seized from failed thrifts are honest, officials said. Yet they expect to find more bad apples. ``I would not be surprised to see one or two instances of that emerging as the (Justice Department's bank fraud) task force proceeds,'' said U.S. Attorney Marvin Collins of Dallas. A longtime savings industry official agreed. ``I would imagine there would be one or two others when you hire 800 people. Maybe 80 or 50 or 30 people _ some percentage that drops over the line,'' the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. ``It will take a long time before it all gets out.'' Collins said fraud may be continuing in the thrifts themselves. ``Some people feel they can take advantage because the system is currently overloaded by investigations,'' said Collins, who's been working on S&amp;L fraud since the mid-1980s. ``We'll be very attentive to them.'' The Federal Home Loan Bank Board hired as many as 800 people _ a ``high percentage'' of them from failed S&amp;Ls _ without performing background checks, government and industry officials said. When employees of failed thrifts are hired as regulators, ``that's a risk, sure,'' acknowledged bank board spokesman Bill Fulwider. Still, he added, ``The assumption is it's generally not their fault the institution went down. They understand the assets, and they have expertise that's valuable.'' Two cases illustrate the pitfalls. Philip S. Noons was hired by the Federal Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corp. in April 1986 after Mainland Savings, a Houston high-flier suspected of widespread fraud, was declared insolvent. Noons had been a project manager at Mainland, and he went to FSLIC managing Mainland assets. On Feb. 8, the FBI arrested Noons and his 31-year-old twin brother, Thomas, and charged them with conspiring to embezzle money from the FSLIC by grossly undervaluing Mainland loans acquired by the FSLIC and then selling them to two Houston companies on behalf of themselves. One package of 16 loans was valued by Philip Noons at $1,500, prosecutors said, while the FSLIC said the package is actually worth $1.6 million. In another case, the brothers paid $692,821 for a loan worth $4 million, the FBI said. The Noonses' attorney, David Berg, says that his clients are innocent and that the government has overreacted and overstated the amounts involved because of pressure for S&amp;L action following President Bush's new plan. Neither brother was implicated in any wrongdoing while at Mainland, Berg said. Regulators have also drawn fire for the hiring of Stuart Jones, a former real estate loan officer for Richardson Savings &amp; Loan Association. Jones was hired in October as deputy director of the bank board in charge of disposing of the agency's massive real estate portfolio, despite criminal referrals to the FBI about his conduct at Richardson, officials said. In December, when officials in Washington learned about the request for an FBI probe made by Dallas regulators, Jones was transferred to a post that does not handle selling assets, Fulwider said. The investigation continues, he said. Despite those two cases and suspicions of others, regulators say they do not believe they have a significant problem. ``Until these two instances surfaced, for all the rapid buildup it seems to have worked pretty well,'' Fulwider said. ``Out of several hundred people who have been added throughout the bank board staff we don't seem to have encountered any real problems in terms of numbers.'' But the bank board may not be aware of the full extent of the problem. According to Collins, when the Justice Department task force uncovers evidence against an S&amp;L official now working for regulators, it can't tip off the agency because of confidentiality laws. A private attorney specializing in bank fraud told the AP of a case he encountered where a former S&amp;L official was hired by the government to handle repossessed properties even though he has a financial interest in some of the properties _ a probable conflict-of-interest violation. ``As many people as they had and as many problems as they had, I wouldn't believe that's the only problem,'' said the attorney, a former white-collar crime prosecutor who asked not to be named because the incident involved a confidential attorney-client relationship. As the S&amp;L industry was deregulated and high-flying thrifts took off into speculative and sometimes fraudulent endeavors, federal regulators found their agencies grossly understaffed and unable to keep up. By the mid-1980s, a hiring push was approved, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board found itself needing not only examiners but also real-estate and banking experts who could help handle the giant portfolios the government was seizing. The people with experience and available for hire were the ones who had worked at the failed thrifts. Until August 1986, they were hired under Schedule B, a government program that waives background checks to speed up the process, Fulwider said. After that, the bank board contracted with an agency to check new hires for criminal records. Checks have never been done retroactively. The bank board made 6,000 criminal referrals to the FBI from insolvent thrifts, asking the bureau to look into specific transactions and individuals. The collapse of the S&amp;L industry is expected to cost some $100 billion to resolve. A large portion of that cost, officials have said, results from mismanagement and outright fraud by S&amp;L executives. Scott McCartney is the AP Southwest regional reporter, based in Dallas.
<relevant> A former officer of the defunct State Federal Savings and Loan Association of Corvallis has pleaded guilty to a federal charge in connection with a scheme to breach loan limits and circumvent federal banking regulations. Ronald Lee Koos, the thrift's former secretary and legal counsel, entered his plea on Monday in U.S. District Court before Judge Owen M. Panner. Panner set sentencing for May 1. Koos, 36, of Albany pleaded guilty to a charge of making a false statement to influence the thrift to make a $12.2 million loan. He also agreed to cooperate with the government and to testify against other defendants in the case. In exchange, prosecutors agreed to seek a two-year prison sentence and dismissed other charges, including aiding and abetting interstate wire fraud, aiding and abetting bank fraud and embezzlement, aiding and abetting misapplication of bank funds and perjury. The thrift was closed in December 1985 by federal regulators after losing about $100 million in loans to ``straw'' borrowers allegedly associated with Thomas Edward Nevis, a 46-year-old Texas real estate developer also charged in the scheme. The thrift was reopened as Freedom Federal Savings and Loan Association. Nevis and two other defendants set for trial in U.S. District Court in early May, according to assistant U.S. Attorney Lance Caldwell.
<relevant> Six people have been indicted on 40 counts of racketeering, conspiracy, bank fraud and other charges in connection with the failure of an Orange County savings and loan institution. The indictment, announced Tuesday by U.S. Attorney Robert Bonner, charged that the chief defendant, Janet Faye McKinzie, 39, engineered a scheme that diverted more than $16 million from North American Savings and Loan of Santa Ana. The alleged fraud cost taxpayers $120 million, which Bonner said the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. spent to cover insured deposits. The government alleged that Ms. McKinzie, along with her boss, the late Duayne D. Christensen, devised the massive fraud, which involved creating phony escrow accounts as well as false billings for construction expenses. Others charged in the indictment were members of construction firms who cooperated in the scheme, as well as officers of related corporations and a man from Arkansas who allegedly participated in the phony escrow scheme. Assistant U.S. Attorney Nancy Wieben Stock, who is prosecuting the case, said Christensen was a former dentist who had no prior experience in finance when he launched North America Savings and Loan in 1983. The thrift was in trouble almost from the outset, she said. It became the subject of a federal investigation in early 1987. On Jan. 16, 1987, the day that federal regulators were due to arrive and examine the S&amp;L's books, Christensen, 57, died in a traffic accident. His Jaguar plowed into a stone wall on a freeway near Newport Beach, Ms. Stock said. Bonner noted that a $10 million life insurance policy had been taken out on Christensen, with McKinzie named as the beneficiary. Ms. Stock said that a lengthy investigation by the insurer found no evidence of suicide, and the $10 million was paid into an account established to cover some federal losses if Ms. McKinzie is convicted. Others charged in the indictment were: Victoria R. Walker, 46, of Elk Grove, Calif.; David L. Morgan, 52, of Little Rock, Ark.; Frederick Youngdahl, 53, of Newport Beach; Armando J. Vasquez, 52, of Irvine and Thomas C. Clarke, 63, of Vista.
<relevant> Federal regulators have filed legal actions seeking $34.9 million in repayments as a result of the failure of two S&amp;Ls. The government's civil complaints seek to recoup the money from four brokerage firms, including two of the nation's largest: Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. and Prudential-Bache Securities. The firms were accused of running up losses of at least $25.9 million at two S&amp;Ls in Colorado and Oklahoma that are now insolvent. The government on Wednesday accused the brokerage firms of using funds from the S&amp;Ls to purchase highly speculative futures and options contracts. The complaints involve the now-defunct Key Savings and Loan Association of Englewood, Colo., and the former Universal Savings and Loan Association of Chickasha, Okla. The two institutions were declared insolvent and taken over by the government in February 1987. The complaints, brought by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., also named as defendants five commodity program salesmen, who either now work or once worked for the firms. FSLIC, which insures S&amp;L deposits up to $100,000, has the task of trying to recoup costs incurred when an S&amp;L fails. Federal officials have estimated that one in four S&amp;L failures is the direct result of fraud, but critics have charged that regulators have been slow to prosecute these cases. President Bush, in announcing his S&amp;L bailout plan in February, promised to step up efforts to recover at least a portion of the billions of dollars that were embezzled or lost at failed S&amp;Ls. The Senate approved its version of the S&amp;L bailout package on Wednesday, a measure that provides $157 billion over the next two decades, with two-thirds of that coming from taxpayers. The FSLIC actions, filed over the past three weeks in federal courts in Denver and Oklahoma City and before the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, were not announced until Wednesday. Shearson-Lehman was accused of involving Key Savings in a computer-driven trading system in 1985 and 1986 on futures and options in violation of federal regulations governing the soundness of S&amp;L investments. The complaint also named as defendants Shearson salesman Douglas J. Shaw and former Shearson salesmen Earl Pettet and Arthur Donald Robb Jr. The complaint, which was filed before the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, seeks at least $9.7 million in damages, including the return of $1.1 million in commissions. FSLIC also filed a $7.4 million suit in U.S. District Court in Denver against Francis ``Bud'' Hildenbrand, who allegedly took over a portion of Key's trading account in November 1985 after the institution terminated its relationship with Pettet. A third complaint, filed against Prudential Bache and Robb, alleges that Prudential-Bache shared Key's trading account with Shearson Lehman after Robb left Shearson to join Prudential-Bache. That complaint, filed with the CFTC, seeks at least $2.8 million in damages. Peter Costiglio, a spokesman for Prudential-Bache in New York, said the brokerage firm would vigorously fight the charges. ``The firm contends that it did not act improperly and the trading done in the account was done with the full knowledge and instructions of the savings and loan,'' he said. FSLIC also filed suit in federal court in Oklahoma City seeking at least $15 million in damages against two other brokerage firms, Geldermann Inc. of Chicago and UMIC Inc. of Memphis, along with UMIC sales representative Charles Alex Denny. The Oklahoma City suit alleges that futures and options trading done by the brokerage firms resulted in more than $6 million in losses at Universal Savings. The civil suit also named as defendants three former executives connected with Universal Savings, Arthur A. Wallace, the president of Universal; Gregg Crosby, vice president of Universal Futures Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the S&amp;L; and Bryan Green, former vice president of the S&amp;L. Officials from the other brokerage firms did not return telephone calls asking for comment.
<relevant> A former savings and loan executive has testified that House Speaker Jim Wright offered to block legislation that could hurt thrifts in exchange for $250,000 in contributions to a political action committee. David R. Farmer was testifying Friday in the trial of three former savings and loan executives on charges that they allegedly participated in what federal prosecutors say was a conspiracy by the thrifts to evade federal laws by channeling corporate contributions to political campaigns. Wright was not named in the federal indictment against the three defendants, Robert Hopkins, Morton Hopkins and John Harrell, who were charged after investigations by the Dallas Bank Fraud Task Force. The three are former executives of Commodore Savings Association. Farmer, former senior vice president and chief financial officer of Commodore, said he gave a $1,000 donation to the East Texas First Political Action Committee in 1985, then was told to file a false expense report to get the money back. Farmer said it was understood that Wright, the Democratic majority leader at the time, had guaranteed that specific legislation unfavorable to savings and loans would be blocked from making it out of committee. The former Commodore executive did not cite the legislation. ``In return for the contributions, Jim Wright guaranteed the legislation would not get out of committee,'' Farmer said. ``Both John (Harrell) and myself were amazed that as high ranking an individual in the Congress as he (Wright) would be involved in something like this.'' Under questioning, Farmer said 10 savings and loans were contributing a total of $250,000 to the political fund. In other testimony this week, witnesses said Commodore employees gave donations to a political action committee and were given raises in return. A Commodore secretary testified that some of the money donated to the political action committee was laundered through Vernon Savings and Loan. On one check the words ``For Jim Wright'' were written on the memo line, she said. Calls from The Associated Press to Wright's Washington and Fort Worth, Texas, offices went unanswered late Friday night. Wright spoke in his hometown of Fort Worth Friday to the Tarrant County Bar Association and the Fort Worth Rotary Club. The allegations against Wright in the federal trial came as the speaker's business transactions have been under fire by the House ethics committee.
<irrelevant> Federal regulators rescued a post-Depression record 217 savings institutions in 1988, leaving Congress and President-elect Bush to figure out the best way to pay the $38 billion bill. Theoretically, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which regulates the S&amp;L industry, expects enough income over the next 30 years _ $45 billion to $50 billion _ to cover the cost. But analysts and many members of Congress say regulators have run up such a huge bill that turning to the taxpayer is inevitable. ``We still don't know the magnitude of the S&amp;L crisis,'' Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said Sunday. ``We're not even certain what the regulators have been doing the past week, running up a tab of some $40 billion.'' Even with a last-minute spending spree of nearly $6 billion to rescue 22 institutions in the final 48 hours of 1988, regulators still have about 350 more insolvency cases to handle. And, as of last Sept. 30, another 150 savings institutions were sliding toward insolvency with capital levels below 1.5 percent. Estimates of the total cost of paying for the mess run as high as $112 billion, a figure reported last month by the General Accounting Office, Congress' auditing agency. Treasury Department officials are considering a variety of plans for the incoming administration. Most attempt to spread out the burden over time and keep as much as possible from adding to the federal budget deficit. But Dole, in an interview on ABC-TV's ``This Week With David Brinkley,'' said, ``Somebody's going to have to pay. ... We can't hide it by putting it off budget or smoke and mirrors.'' This year's failure and rescue total _ 217 of the 3,100 S&amp;Ls operating at the start of the year _ is more than quadruple last year's total of 48. It is the highest total since a record 277 failures and rescues in the Depression year of 1938. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures the nation's 13,500 commercial banks, 221 banks failed or required government assistance. That is also a post-Depression record, topping the previous record of 203 in 1987. Both the FDIC and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. draw their funds from an assessment on member institutions. But the FDIC depends on the much-larger banking industry, which as a whole is in much better shape, and enters 1989 in relatively good shape with more than $15 billion in reserves. FSLIC, however, is technically insolvent. So, regulators have been patching together rescue deals with as little cash as possible. Most of the aid takes the form of various commitments secured by revenue that regulators don't have now and in some case won't have for as long as 30 years. Moreover, the revenue projections depend on charging S&amp;Ls a special assessment, originally intended to be phased out in a few years, over the next three decades. Industry officials say that would drive even more S&amp;Ls into the red. The biggest rescue on the last day of 1988 was for the Beverly Hills Savings and Loan Association, a giant California institution whose financial problems had plagued regulators for years. The package called for the government to provide $983 million in assistance in the sale of Beverly Hills to Michigan National Corp., a bank holding company in Farmington Hills, Mich., that is putting $52 million into the deal. Also on Saturday, the bank board pledged: _$243.3 million in aid to Home Federal Savings and Loan, a San Diego S&amp;L putting up $25 million to acquire three institutions in the San Francisco area. They are: Columbus Savings and Loan, San Rafael; Cal America Savings and Loan, Walnut Creek, and First Security, Pleasant Hill. _$151.1 million in aid to California Savings and Loan of Los Angeles, which agreed to put up $20.4 million into the insolvent Broward Federal Savings and Loan of Sunrise, Fla. _$29.9 million in aid to First Network Savings Bank of Los Angeles, which agreed to pay $1.25 million for the insolvent Tahoe Savings and Loan of South Lake Tahoe. _$8 million to Home Federal Savings and Loan of Sioux Falls, S.D., which is purchasing United Federal Savings and Loan of Aberdeen, S.D.
<irrelevant> The effort by Oliver North to compel President Reagan and President-elect Bush to testify at his Iran-Contra trial has renewed a debate, almost as old as the Union, over ``executive privilege.'' Can a president, or a former one, be forced to testify in a legal case? Courts have provided little guidance, but constitutional experts said Tuesday that North's legal tactic may succeed. No sitting president ever has testified in court in a criminal trial, but several have provided testimony or what might be considered the equivalent. The personal stakes are high for North. The former White House aide is charged with theft, conspiracy to defraud the government and several other felonies in the case involving the support of Nicaraguan rebels with money from the sale of U.S. weapons to Iran. His trial is scheduled to begin Jan. 31 _ just 11 days after Bush is to succeed Reagan. Besides Reagan and Bush, subpoenas also have been issued for other key figures in the Reagan administration, including Secretary of State George P. Shultz and four other State Department officials. The man who first tried to force a president to testify was Aaron Burr, a former vice president who stood trial in 1807 on charges of treason. Burr sought to force Thomas Jefferson, the president under whom he had served, to testify at the trial. Jefferson resisted. But Chief Justice John Marshall, presiding over the trial, ruled against Jefferson. The president eventually avoided having to appear by releasing some information Burr had sought. The closest the Supreme Court has come to ruling on the issue presented by North's subpoena came in the Watergate tapes decision of 1974, in a case called Nixon vs. U.S. The court then ruled, 8-0, that President Richard M. Nixon had to comply with a special prosecutor's subpoena seeking the surrender of White House tape recordings. ``The general assertion of privilege must yield to the demonstrated, specific need for evidence in a pending criminal trial,'' the high court ruled 15 years ago. Jerome Barron, a law professor at George Washington University here, said Tuesday the 1974 decision is a strong precedent for North. ``Whether Mr. Reagan or Mr. Bush can be subpoenaed was resolved in Nixon vs. U.S., and the answer is yes,'' Barron said. ``If the evidence (sought by North) is material, I think Reagan and Bush can be required to appear,'' Barron said. On the other hand, unnamed Justice Department sources were quoted by The Washington Post as saying that Nixon vs. U.S. offers support for fighting subpoenas of Reagan and Bush. They said the Supreme Court emphasized that its Watergate-tapes decision did not deal with a claim of privilege based on national security grounds. Justice Department and White House officials have said they will try to have the subpoenas thrown out. Stanley Brand, a Washington lawyer who once served as general counsel to the House of Representatives, said North may succeed. ``My sense is North has a good claim. The president was involved in the process, and one of North's defenses is that he was serving the president by following orders,'' Brand said. In 1975, then-President Gerald R. Ford gave a videotaped deposition in the trial of Lynette ``Squeaky'' Fromme, who was convicted of trying to assassinate Ford. The videotape was played for jurors at Fromme's trial. While in office, President Jimmy Carter provided videotaped testimony in two criminal prosecutions.
<irrelevant> L. William Seidman is a lot like a protective parent when it comes to the nation's banking funds. Nothing gets his guard up more than talk of a proposed matchup between his ``baby,'' the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures commercial bank deposits, and the wayward thrift insurer, the Federal Savings &amp; Loan Insurance Corp. ``People keep telling us they have to get married, and we're looking at the bride very carefully,'' said Seidman, FDIC chairman for the past three years and one of the most forceful regulators in Washington. As he tries to help set the banking agenda for the Bush administration, Seidman (pronounced Seed-Mun) is blunt about his feelings on the thrift crisis and opposition to an FDIC-FSLIC merger, which some propose as a step toward solving FSLIC's money problems. Banks, though, worry such a merger will result in skyrocketing insurance premiums. ``There was a time when you could have merged the two. (But) a merger now will bankrupt the funds,'' Seidman said in an interview. Unlike the FDIC, FSLIC is technically insolvent due to the large number of problem-thrift bailouts. Last year alone, FSLIC spent $38.6 billion to help merge or sell 222 insolvent S&amp;Ls. Hundreds more remain financially shaky. Seidman proposes, among other things, that the government bite the bullet by spending another $30 billion in 1989 to close 100 of the sickest thrifts. The other problem S&amp;Ls could be dealt with over a longer period of time. He also wants the government to consider revamping the entire deposit insurance system to include new broad powers for his agency and splitting FSLIC from its parent, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. ``If I were advising the president I think he should do it (resolve the thrift crisis) early on in the honeymoon days ... when it's someone else's problem,'' he said. ``If he waits too long, it becomes his problem. It's not a politically attractive issue.'' Seidman's zeal is understandable. He had his own problems after taking the helm of the FDIC in October 1985, becoming its 14th chairman. For one thing, he inherited the fallout from Continental Illinois Corp.'s near demise a year before. During his tenure, Seidman has contended with more than 600 bank failures, including a post-Depression record 221 in 1988. The FDIC posted its first operating loss last year, although it remains firmly solvent, with a net worth of around $15 billion at the end of 1988. Seidman, 67, came to the job with surprising little banking experience. At the time of his appointment, he was dean of the College of Business at Arizona State University. Before that, he served as vice chairman at copper giant Phelps Dodge Corp. and a managing parter in the accounting firm Seidman &amp; Seidman, started by his father and uncle. His business acumen and investment savvy also have helped make him a millionaire many times over, and he has several homes around the country, including one in Hawaii. He shares some of his business smarts in a just-published book he co-authored, ``Competitiveness: the Executive's Guide to Success.'' Seidman also is no stranger to Republican politics. From 1974 to 1977 he served as assistant for economic affairs under President Ford, a childhood friend from his hometown Grand Rapids, Mich. From 1983 to 1984 he was co-chairman of the White House Conference on Productivity. He also ran an unsuccessful campaign to become Michigan auditor general in the 1960s. All that experience ``and my good looks,'' Seidman said, has helped in tackling the banking world. There have been some big issues to tackle, including: the Latin debt problem, the campaign to expand into investment banking, and lately, the debt-financed takeover craze, which Seidman warns could endanger big lending banks. ``My experience says that credibility is the No. 1 asset you have to have,'' Seidman said, ``and telling it like it is is the best way to deal with things.'' A free-market advocate, Seidman has been called a team player by those who know him well. But he's also not afraid to speak his mind. For instance, at the American Bankers Association annual convention in Honolulu last fall, a red-faced Seidman denounced the comptroller of the currency, Robert L. Clarke, who is on the board of the FDIC, for suggesting that commercial banks prepare for a possible FDIC-FSLIC merger. Just the day before the two men held a friendly, informal news conference. ``He (Seidman) feels very strongly that the resolution (of the thrift crisis) should not come on the backs of commercial banks,'' said James J. McDermott Jr., a banking analyst with the investment firm Keefe Bruyette &amp; Woods. ``He has been a good steward for the industry at a time when the effects of deregulation (of the 1970s) have caused signficant turmoil as shown by the bank failures over the years. ``He has been a breath of fresh air.'' Short, stout and nearly bald, Seidman bares a slight resemblance to the late actor William Frawley, known as Fred Mertz on the ``I Love Lucy'' television series. He has the same gravelly voice. But he's far more physically active than the Mertz character was, enjoying polo and a variety of other sports _ and not as grouchy, especially to his six children and several grandchildren. ``He knows how to relax. It's a wonderful gift,'' said his wife, Sally. ``He could have a horrendous day and then he just forgets about it when he gets home.'' While at work, Seidman also tries to keep things informal, remaining accessible to banking analysts and the press. If it were up to him, he'd probably be wearing sweat shirts and casual slacks to work. Before attending a recent ABA dinner in Honolulu, ``He asked me, `Do you think I have to wear a suit and tie?','' Mrs. Seidman confided. ``And I said, `Yeah, you better.'''
<irrelevant> A top bank official says the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's dual role as regulator of the savings industry and promoter of home ownership has contributed to the wave of S&amp;L failures. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in commercial banks, said Wednesday the insurance fund for S&amp;Ls should be independent of the bank board. The primary goal of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., which insures deposits up to $100,000, is the safety and soundness of savings institutions, he said. However, the FSLIC's parent, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, is also charged with creating, or chartering, S&amp;Ls to provide a steady flow of mortgage money to home buyers. ``There's a basic conflict between those two roles and I think it's very important that they be separated so that the insurer ... can protect his insurance fund and not allow institutions that operate in an unsafe and unsound manner to have insurance,'' Seidman told reporters at a luncheon to release a 408-page FDIC report, ``Deposit Insurance for the Nineties: Meeting the Challenge.'' He recommended a regulatory structure for S&amp;Ls similar to the system for banks. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, an arm of the Treasury Department, charters national banks, while the FDIC insures their deposits. The U.S. League of Savings Institutions, the industry's largest trade group, has not taken a position on separating the FSLIC from the bank board, but its chairman, B.R. Beeksma, said recently the question should be considered. The bank board's performance as a chartering agency may be suffering because it is consumed with the problems of the FSLIC, he said. The FDIC, which prepared the report for Congress, also recommended placing S&amp;L examiners under the FSLIC. Currently, the examiners work for the regional Federal Home Loan Banks, which lend money to S&amp;Ls, are owned by the industry and are controlled by boards composed of S&amp;L executives. The current system can have the effect of allowing S&amp;Ls with representatives on the regional bank boards to regulate their competitors, Seidman said. The FDIC made no recommendation on how money should be raised to pay for the S&amp;L crisis, but said it was clear that the federal government, rather than the S&amp;L industry or banks, will have to pay most of the $60 billion to $115 billion needed to restore S&amp;Ls to health. But, it said, ``concerns about the federal budget deficit could be mitigated by an off-budget financing arrangement'' in which the Treasury pays the interest on borrowing to finance the industry's rescue. The Treasury Department is preparing a recommendation for President-elect Bush and the new Congress. Meanwhile, the FDIC rejected proposals to curtail or eliminate federal deposit insurance, arguing that would increase the danger of bank runs. Some scholars say reducing or doing away with the insurance would force depositors to pay more attention to how well their institutions are run. The American Bankers Association said in a statement Wednesday that the current practice of protecting even depositors with funds in excess of the $100,000 insurance limit ``has become a license for abuse by some financial managers.'' But, Seidman said, ``In today's complex world, we think the depositor, both sophisticated and unsophisticated, would have great difficulty in knowing the condition of their banks on a day-to-day basis. ... We as bank regulators with thousands of supervisors have difficulty in keeping control of banks in terms of their exact financial condition.''
<irrelevant> President Reagan's advisers on Tuesday recommended curtailing deposit insurance for bank and savings and loan accounts, triggering swift negative reaction from Congress and the Treasury Department. In its final report to Reagan, the president's Council of Economic Advisers said reducing protection for depositors would encourage them to more closely ``monitor the financial health'' of the institutions holding their money. But the Treasury Department, through Rep. Chalmers Wylie of Ohio, senior Republican on the House Banking Committee, promptly distanced itself from the latest proposal involving the troubled savings industry in which a post-Depression record of more than 200 insolvent institutions were closed last year. At a hearing of the House committee, Wylie said, ``Curtailing deposit insurance is not an option and will not be considered'' as part of the S&amp;L plan being developed by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who is staying on in the Bush administration. Wylie, who said he spoke after his office conferred with the Treasury Department, said Brady will present the plan to President-elect Bush by about Feb. 15. Rep. Henry B. Gonzalez, D-Texas, chairman of the committee, did say a gradual reduction in deposit insurance may be considered as part of solving the S&amp;L crisis. But he also said such a proposal ``is a very serious matter, not a matter to be thrown out as a trial balloon.'' Other Democratic and Republican members of Congress reaffirmed a commitment to guaranteeing deposits up to the current $100,000 per account limit. ``Congress will stand four-square behind the $100,000 agreement,'' said Rep. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. ``I'm appalled at the timing of the administration. ... I think the public needs some reassurance.'' In its report, released by the White House, the Council of Economic Advisers also sharply criticized Reagan-appointed savings and loan regulators for ``postponing the day of reckoning'' in their rescues of failed institutions. ``Most regulatory actions taken so far ... will sharply increase costs to the general public,'' the report said. S&amp;L regulators' practice of guaranteeing new owners of rescued S&amp;Ls against losses for up to 10 years weakens the incentive to manage efficiently, it said. The top regulator, M. Danny Wall, chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, defended his agency's year-end spate of savings and loan bailouts as cheaper than shutting down the failed institutions and paying off depositors. Wall told the committee that his agency rescued 75 institutions in December at a cost of $15.5 billion to be spread out over 10 years. Tax benefits arising from the deals will cost the government an additional $4 billion. Liquidating the S&amp;Ls and shutting them down would have required $47 billion in ``up-front cash,'' far more than is available immediately to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp., Wall said. However, by selling off the property of the failed S&amp;Ls, regulators eventually would have recouped all but $22.8 billion on the December transactions, he said. Wall and fellow bank board members Roger Martin and Lawrence White cited two benefits of rescuing institutions now and spreading out the cost rather than waiting to accumulate the money for liquidations. First, Wall said, the bank board stopped the operating losses at the rescued institutions. Second, it eased the need for the institutions to pay above-market interest rates to attract depositors. That in turn eases the pressure on still-healthy S&amp;Ls to compete by raising their rates. For all of 1988, including December, the bank board committed more than $38 billion to resolve the cases of 205 institutions, Wall said. Several members of the committee expressed outrage that in some deals, buyers of failed institutions are to receive tax benefits worth more than the private money they are to put into rescued institutions. ``The dealmakers who are walking away with more cash than they're putting in from day 1 are laughing all the way to the piggybank,'' Rep. Jim Leach, R-Iowa, told Wall. ``The acquirers have robbed you blind.'' Reagan's council, noting estimates up to $100 billion for solving the S&amp;L problem, said ``a large portion of the payment of this bill will need to come directly from the public.'' The report did not say tax money would have to be spent, but many private analysts believe that is inevitable. In the final Reagan budget, released Monday, the administration called for spending $64 billion on S&amp;Ls through 1994 and acknowledged for the first time that the government does not have enough money coming in from the industry and other sources to handle the cleanup. Citing the 1980 decision by Congress to boost the limit on deposit insurance from $40,000 to $100,000, Reagan's economic advisers said reducing the ceiling ``would restore much-needed discipline to the system.'' ``The scope of federal deposit insurance should be significantly curtailed,'' it said. However, it did not recommend a specific limit, nor did it say whether the curtailment should apply to existing deposits or only to future deposits. Deposit insurance discourages bank runs and provides individuals with a safe place for their money, but it ``also dramatically reduces the incentives for depositors to monitor the financial health of their bank,'' the report said. The council's chairman, Beryl Sprinkel, said at the White House, ``Clearly, there is a big price to be paid, and some funds were allocated by the president's last budget; additional will be necessary in the future. But if we concentrate only on the price to be paid and do not concentrate on reforming the industry, in my opinion, it will be a temporary stopgap measure that will lead to repeated losses in the future.'' According to the U.S. League of Savings Institutions, 13.3 percent of all S&amp;L accounts at the end of 1987 exceeded the insurance limit. However, the average account had $8,440.
</top>
<top>
<num> 88
<title> Crude Oil Price Trends
<relevant> Crude futures prices rallied after sliding most of the day Thursday, fueled by a report that an OPEC country would cut production if necessary to stabilize prices. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the March contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark grade of crude oil, closed 22 cents higher at $17.73 a barrel after falling to $17.38 earlier in the session. The contract had risen 48 cents on Wednesday to $17.51 a barrel. Other contract months were mixed. According to market observers, the report published in an Arabic-language newspaper said Dubai, the largest producing emirate within the United Arab Emirates, was willing to cut its output 10 percent after March 1 if market conditions warrant. ``It was psychological,'' said Jayne Ball, commodity oil broker with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ``Ten percent only amounts to 40,000 barrels a day. The main thing is Dubai had said (previously) it would not cut back at all.'' World oil prices had risen rapidly since November, surprising many analysts, but in recent days began easing slightly mainly on technical factors. Investors interpreted Thursday's news as another sign that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is trying to stabilize prices, analysts said. The United Arab Emirates is one of the OPEC countries believed to be exceeding a new production quota established by the 13-member cartel to reduce output and stabilize world oil prices. The quota of 18.5 million barrels a day took effect Jan. 1 but various estimates since then put OPEC's actual production at between 19.5 million and 20 million barrels. Some reports have suggested the UAE is exceeding its quota by some 400,000 barrels a day. Traders said prices also got some support from Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez who during his inauguration on Thursday called for more cooperation by OPEC and non-OPEC countries. Among refined oil products, the March contract for unleaded gasoline lost 0.1 cent to close at 49.62 cents a gallon, while the March contract for heating oil rose 0.11 cent to 50.55 cents a gallon.
<relevant> Energy futures prices slumped Friday amid conflicting reports from OPEC. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the March contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark grade of U.S. crude oil, lost 20 cents to close the day at $17.53 a barrel. The contract had settled 22 cents higher on Thursday after flipflopping earlier in the week. Other contract months also fell. Heating oil and unleaded gasoline prices were among the refined products that declined on the exchange. The March contract for domestic heating oil settled 0.24 cent lower at 50.31 cents a gallon, while unleaded gasoline closed down 0.45 cent at 49.17 cents a gallon. Analysts said crude prices had risen on Thursday, spurred by a report in an Arabic-language newspaper that Dubai was considering a 10 percent cut in its oil production starting March 1. A second report on Friday contradicting the earlier statements pushed prices down, said Nauman Barakat, vice president of energy investments at Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. ``It shows the market is still very prone to rumors,'' Barakat said. Barakat said Thursday's report had been perceived as positive because it suggested Dubai was willing to cooperate to help stabilize world oil prices. Dubai has refused to cut its production since the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' new quota system took effect Jan. 1. Dubai is one of several emirates in the United Arab Emirates, one of the 13 OPEC nations. Experts estimate the UAE is exceeding its quota by about 400,000 barrels a day. It was assigned a quota of 988,000 barrels out of a total 18.5 million barrels for the entire cartel. Investors have remained skittish despite OPEC's new agreement because in the past the cartel has had problems sticking to similar accords. Although prices have risen fairly steadily since Jan. 1, recent reports indicate that several members of the cartel are continuing to overproduce. Analysts said the latest reports from Dubai provided further evidence that OPEC's agreement remains shaky.
<relevant> The OPEC nations produced about 19.4 million barrels of oil a day in February, less than in the previous month but still above their new production goal, according to fresh estimates released Monday. The International Energy Agency said in its Monthly Oil Market Report that estimated production by the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries dipped last month from 20.2 million barrels a day in January. The oil-producing nations agreed in November to slash output starting Jan. 1, to try to boost prices to $18 a barrel. Since then, analysts say the oil nations have reduced the crude flow to meet their ceiling, or quota, of 18.5 million barrels a day in the first six months of the year. The slowdown in output has boosted prices about $5 since last November. The average price of a basket of crudes monitored by OPEC was $16.31 a barrel last week. Independent oil-producing nations have also agreed to lower their exports in the April-June quarter in an effort to kick up prices further. As part of that drive, the Soviet Union on Friday announced it would cut its exports by about 5 percent in the first half of the year. The Soviet Union, the world's largest crude oil producer, said Monday the export reduction would amount to 100,000 barrels a day and was an effort to cooperate closely with OPEC to stabilize world oil prices. The Soviet Union sells foreign clients an estimated 1.8 million barrels of oil a day. The International Energy Agency's report estimated the world oil supply at 49.6 million barrels a day in February, off 900,000 barrels from January. ``The reduction,'' it said, ``is due primarily to lower production in several Middle Eastern countries as well as a slight production decline in the (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development).'' The OECD is an organization of about two-dozen industrialized nations. Oil output in those nations, it said, was estimated at 16.2 million barrels a day in February, down 100,000 barrels from January. The report also said strong economic growth, especially in Japan, helped lift oil consumption in the industrialized nations to 38.8 million barrels a day in the October-December quarter of 1988, up about 5 percent from year-earlier levels. ``Heavy fuel oil consumption increased in all regions, mainly because of higher demand by electric utilities,'' the report said. ``In North America, there was considerable switching from natural gas, partly because of competitively priced fuel oil.'' Oil consumption in North America, it said, was 19.7 million barrels a day in the fourth quarter of last year, a gain of about 4.5 percent from the same period of 1987. European consumption, it said, advanced about 3.5 percent in the last three months of 1988. The report estimated that oil consumption in the industrialized nations would rise about 1.6 percent in the first quarter of this year. ``January consumption growth was quite strong but appeared to slow in February,'' it said. According to the agency's supply estimates, only Iran, Ecuador and the United Arab Emirates appeared to be producing in February above the levels set for individual OPEC countries last November. Iran's output was estimated at 2.7 million barrels a day in February, compared with its quota of 2.6 million barrels. The United Arab Emirates produced about 1.6 million barrels a day, well above its target of 988,000 barrels. Ecuador was measured at roughly 300,000 barrels a day, compared with its quota of 230,000 barrels. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude exporter, produced an estimated 4.5 million barrels a day in February, the same as its quota. Its daily output was roughly 4.8 million barrels in January. OPEC released figures late last month that showed member countries complying in January with the new output accord. It said a dozen of its members supplied a total of 17.42 million barrels a day in January, just under the combined quota for those countries of 17.51 million barrels. OPEC said it measures a nation's quota by figuring crude production and the amount of oil put into, or drawn out, of stocks. OPEC members are: Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.
<relevant> OPEC ministers winding up a two-day strategy session Thursday indicated cartel members planned to stick to their current production restraints through mid-year but said there were proposals to loosen the curbs later. Subroto, secretary-general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the meeting of the cartel's eight-member monitoring committee was held in a ``very frank, good atmosphere'' but declined to provide details. The ministers, he said, renewed their intention to ``adhere very strictly'' in the April-June quarter to last November's agreement that called for production curbs in order to raise sagging crude prices. Prices since then have risen by more than $5 a barrel for OPEC crudes and before the meetings there were indications some ministers wanted to consider raising the production limit for the second half of 1989 to keep prices from rising too sharply. Iraq's oil minister Issam Abdul Raheem Al-Chalabi, when asked by reporters if he expected OPEC to raise its output limits, said ``Well, this is one of the proposals that has been put forward.'' He declined to elaborate. The meeting was the organization's first formal review of the oil market since the accord, which covers the first six months of the year. The supply cuts _ combined with greater demand and accidents in producing areas _ have driven the price of a basket of OPEC crudes to the cartel's benchmark of $18 a barrel. In futures trading, the May contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. crude, closed up 61 cents Thursday at $20.81 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. That level is more than $7 higher than the two-year lows reached last October. Crude prices were boosted somewhat Thursday by indications there could be further supply problems stemming from the major oil spill at Valdez, Alaska. Analysts say most of the 13 OPEC nations have curtailed production to try to meet the cartel's daily output cap of 18.5 million barrels in the first six months of the year. The key violator, analysts say, has been the United Arab Emirates. But Subroto announced that Abu Dhabi, which accounts for about two-thirds of UAE production, planned to limit output to 850,000 barrels a day in March. It has been producing an estimated 1 million barrels daily, compared with its quota of 988,000 barrels. The promise, he said, ``is a good sign of the willingness of everybody to adhere to the agreement.'' OPEC says 12 nations supplied 17.4 million barrels of oil a day to the world market in February, compared with the ceiling of 17.51 million barrels for the dozen. The United Arab Emirates was not included because it did not supply figures to the cartel. Subroto said the ministers discussed a variety of topics covering short-term and long-term issues confronting the oil market. This weeks talks laid groundwork for OPEC's June meeting, when ministers will discuss an accord for the second half of this year. Kuwait's oil minister, Sheik Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, suggested in a recent interview that the cartel should boost its production cap 1.5 million barrels a day to a total of 20 million barrels in the last six months of the year. But other ministers have said they wanted to see how prices perform in the second quarter, normally weaker than the January-March period with the coming of warmer weather in oil importing nations. Subroto said, ``Demand for oil in the second half (of 1989) will be increasing.'' Subroto said the ministers would have ``many contacts with each other'' before June, but he said there was no decision to convene the monitoring committee before then. Before Thursday's formal talks, the ministers met privately in their rooms at a luxury hotel. Independent oil exporting nations have agreed to help OPEC in the second quarter by snipping their exports a total of about 300,000 barrels a day. Members of the monitoring committee are Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela. Other OPEC members are Ecuador, Gabon, Libya, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
<relevant> OPEC's president said today an unexpectedly robust oil market could falter and send crude prices tumbling, as the cartel formally met to set price and production levels for the rest of 1989. ``There is still considerable inherent weakness in the market,'' said Rilwanu Lukman, president of the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Lukman said oil prices have surged higher than expected this year, but he cautioned it was not clear the gains would be permanent. ``We have yet to ascertain whether they form part of a long-term upward trend in pricing levels or whether they merely constitute a short- or medium-term cyclical peak,'' he said. ``We therefore urge caution against complacency, at this stage, for these gains have yet to be consolidated.'' Lukman called on the producing nations to hold their output levels to the quotas set by the cartel. Potential problems, he said, could come from increased production in areas recently slowed by accidents, such as in the North Sea. He also said a pickup in inflation could lead to a contraction in industrialized economies. Earlier in the day, officials said ministers from Nigeria, Venezuela, Indonesia and Algeria met to consider the options after a compromise failed to win Kuwaiti backing. ``There's no deadlock,'' insisted Iraqi Oil Minister Issam Abdul Raheem al-Chalabi. The cartel is trying to reach a quick agreement on a new pricing and production accord, in part to let Iran's oil minister, Gholamreza Aqazadeh, return home for the funeral of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. The ministers seem in general agreement on lifting their July-December production ceiling to 20 million barrels a day, an increase of 1.5 million barrels from the current accord. An increase along those lines, analysts say, would likely leave oil prices _ and gasoline prices at the pump _ unchanged. An official of one delegation, who demanded anonymity, said the elements of a compromise emerged over the weekend. Under this plan, the output cap would be lifted to 20 million barrels a day. Of that sum, 500,000 would be divided up among five countries _ Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Gabon, Ecuador and Qatar. Those countries have been pressing for higher quotas, or shares of the overall total. The additional one million barrels would be shared proportionately among all 13. The official said, however, Kuwait has insisted on a still higher chunk of the total. Kuwait's oil minister, Ali Khalifa al-Sabah, reportedly wants to boost his current quota from 1.037 million barrels a day to as much as 1.35 million barrels. Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Hisham Nazer, said he would like to see higher crude prices, but he declined to say how much. ``The market decides the price,'' he said. Nazer, the pivotal negotiator in the talks, said he expects crude oil demand to increase ``a substantial amount'' in the remainder of the year. Saudi Arabia, the world's largest crude exporter, pumps nearly a quarter of all OPEC oil, giving it powerful leverage over the negotiations. Some of the OPEC countries, seeking an advantage at the meeting, have turned up production in recent weeks. Total OPEC output is estimated at about 21 million barrels a day. The average price of a basket of seven crudes monitored by OPEC has skyrocketed from $12.34 a barrel at the end of November to nearly $17.70 a barrel last week. West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. crude, was trading at just under $20 a barrel. Prices have been pushed up not only by OPEC's output cuts but also by accidents in oil-producing areas that have reduced supply. OPEC members are: Algeria, Ecuador, Gabon, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.
<irrelevant> Iraq has cut oil exports by 90,000 barrels a day in accordance with its new OPEC production quota of 2.64 million barrels a day, the official Iraqi News Agency reported Monday. The agency, monitored in Cyprus, said that as of Jan. 1 Iraq had stopped trucking 65,000 barrels a day to Jordan's Red Sea port of Aqaba and another 25,000 barrels a day through Turkey. Meanwhile, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia on Monday launched a multi-billion deficit budget for fiscal 1989 with a warning that Saudi Arabia would not be bound by OPEC-fixed oil production quotas if others violated them. Iraq currently exports 1.5 million barrels a day through a pipeline across Turkey to Mediterranean ports, and another 500,000 barrels a day through a pipeline across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea port of Yanbu, the agency said. Iraq's quota, matching that of Iran, was set by the 13-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries at a cartel meeting in Vienna in November. Previously Iran had a cap of 2.4 million barrels a day, compared to 1.5 million barrels a day for Iraq, which was heavily exceeding its quota. The former gulf war enemies badly need increased oil revenues in order to rebuild economies shattered by 8 years of hostilities. In Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the official Saudi Press Agency said budget outlays for the world's biggest oil-exporting nation were approved at a weekly cabinet session chaired by King Fahd. Expenditures were set at 141 million riyals, or about $37.6 billion, against projected revenues of 116 billion riyals, or $30.9 billion. That left a deficit of 25 billion riyals, or $6.7 billion, down from 35.9 billion riyals for 1988, to be covered by public borrowing, the agency said. Budget deficits have become a chronic problem in Saudi Arabia and other oil-producing nations since crude prices started slipping in the early 1980s because of a world glut. The new restrictive OPEC quota system took effect on Sunday in a fresh attempt to remedy the situation. King Fahd stressed the importance of ``discipline and adherence'' to the quotas if prices are to improve. He warned that although Saudi Arabia is ``the first state to abide by what OPEC agrees to... I don't think that anyone can blame the kingdom if the contract is broken.'' ``We do not want to see that to happen under any circumstances and it is hoped that the losses suffered by the OPEC states give an idea of what can result from a chaos, as happened a few years ago and again a year ago,'' he added.
<irrelevant> Technical factors and optimism about OPEC's new production-cutting agreement have helped push oil futures prices higher. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the February contract for West Texas Intermediate oil, the benchmark grade of U.S. crude, rose 34 cents to close Thursday at $17.42 a barrel. The contract lost 28 cents on Wednesday. Among refined products traded on the exchange, the February contract for home heating oil closed at 53.47 cents a gallon, up 0.82 cent, after falling 0.58 cent Wednesday. February wholesale unleaded gasoline, which gained 0.05 cent in the previous session, ended up 0.08 cent to 47.40 cents a gallon. Jerry Samuels, an energy analyst with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., attributed the stronger market tone to a combination of technical factors and general optimism that the 13-nation Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will adhere to new output quotas that took effect Jan. 1. ``The market appears to be giving OPEC the benefit of the doubt, at least until we see the actual production figures,'' Samuels said. On the technical side, he said, the market was boosted by the fact that WTI has remained above $17 a barrel.
<irrelevant> Members and non-members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet Jan. 26 in London to discuss ways of cooperating to stabilize the world oil market, OPEC's secretary general said Monday. Indonesia's Subroto also said that OPEC had no confirmation of published reports that the United Arab Emirates was exceeding its production quota agreed upon at an OPEC meeting last November. The January meeting will include representatives of the 13-member cartel, but not necessarily the countries' oil ministers, Subroto indicated to reporters after meeting with Egypt oil minister Abdel-Hady Kandil. The Indonesian minister, who arrived in Cairo Sunday night, is touring non-OPEC oil-producing countries, and already has visited Colombia and Mexico. He is to depart Wednesday for Oman. Subroto said his purpose is to determine ``what OPEC and non-OPEC (nations) can do together.'' Subroto and Kandil said that non-OPEC oil-producing countries will hold a meeting of their own in London Jan. 25 at Oman's request. Then, experts from OPEC and non-OPEC countries would meet the following day to prepare the ground for a ministerial meeting later, he said. ``We discussed cooperation and what we shall do together to bring stability in the oil market,'' Subroto said of his talks with Kandil. ``Certainly one aspect of that cooperation is how to influence supply, and OPEC has done its part already by the November agreement to reduce production and I think it is now time that non-OPEC producers will also contribute.'' Kandil however, ruled out any further reduction of Egypt's production. He said that since October 1984, Egypt had reduced its daily output in support of OPEC policies. Egypt is not a member of OPEC but its oil policy is generally guided by the cartel's actions. Subroto said that OPEC's eight-minister monitoring committee has closely followed each member's output, looking for possible violations of quotas. Asked about published reports that the United Arab Emirates was exceeding its quota, Subroto said there was no evidence to support such a claim. Subroto said that world oil prices were ``developing very much positively'' thanks to observance of last November's OPEC quotas and cooperation between OPEC and non-OPEC producers. OPEC agreed late last year to reduce its oil output to 18.5 million barrels a day from more than 22 million barrels starting Jan. 1. Since the agreement, world oil prices have risen steadily from around the $12-$13-a-barrel range to the $16-$17 range. The new quota is to remain in effect for six months.
<irrelevant> Energy futures prices are continuing an upward trend, helped by investor expectations that OPEC is abiding by its production accord. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the February contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark grade of U.S. crude oil, settled 17 cents higher at $17.72 a barrel Monday. On Friday, the contract closed up 13 cents at $17.55 following a volatile week. Among refined products traded on the exchange, domestic heating oil futures ended Monday higher. The February contract settled at 54.15 cents a gallon, up 0.55 cent. Meanwhile, unleaded gasoline futures closed mixed, with the February contract up 0.24 cent at 47.96 cents a gallon. Energy analysts said bullish sentiment about OPEC's agreement to cut production continued to push prices higher. The 13-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries announced in November it would reduce its output to 18.5 million barrels a day starting Jan. 1 from an amount estimated at more than 22 million barrels. Since then, prices have risen approximately $5 a barrel. Traders said futures prices got a lift Monday from reports that most OPEC countries are abiding by the accord and have drastically reduced their production. At least two reports suggested that Saudi Arabia, the cartel's largest producer, cut its output by more than 2 million barrels a day the first week in January. ``Whichever (report) you take, the figures show they're down. It's the direction that helped out,'' said Bob Baker, a futures analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. Prices also got a lift from reports of continuing problems in the North Sea following a fire in an oil facility there late last year, traders said. ``Prices are moving up because it's a bull market and there is no bearish news,'' said Jim Fiedler, an oil broker with E.D.&amp;F. Man International Futures Inc.
<irrelevant> The Arabian American Oil Co. said Tuesday that Saudi Arabia's estimated oil reserves are more than 50 percent higher than previously estimated. Aramco said that a new study estimates Saudi Arabia's recoverable crude oil reserves at 252.38 billion barrels. That's about one-fourth of the world's total known reserves and significantly higher than the 171.5 billion barrels previously estimated. Aramco, based in the capital of Saudi Arabia's oil-producing eastern province, also estimated Saudi gas reserves at 177.294 trillion cubic feet, up from approximately 141.80 trillion estimated a year ago. The Aramco report, distributed by the official Saudi Press Agency, said that untapped reserves could raise the estimates to 315 billion barrels of oil and 253 trillion cubic feet of gas. By comparison, the United States has estimated oil reserves of 27 billion barrels and the Soviet Union, the world's largest oil producer, some 63 billion barrels. The new estimates followed six years of intensive study by a computerized engineering center in Dhahran manned by the world's largest grouping of oil experts and engineers with the most sophisticated equipment available, Aramco said. Saudi Arabia and neighboring gulf countries sit on two-thirds of the world's oil proven reserves. Saudi Arabia is the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the world's largest oil exporter. Other members of OPEC also recently have increased their government estimates of proven reserves in what some analysts say is part of an ongoing power struggle within the cartel. Iraq, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, all OPEC countries, each have reported estimated reserves of around 100 billion barrels. The amount of reserves a country has are believed to be one factor used by OPEC to establish production quotas. The Arabic-language report did not use the word ``proven'' for the latest estimate, but it was implied through the comparison with the untapped resources. Proven oil reserves are those that can be produced at current prices with current technology. King Fahd, who is currently visiting the eastern province, last week chaired a cabinet meeting that ratified Saudi Arabia's 1989 budget which showed a deficit for the sixth straight year because of weak oil prices. The kingdom drew on its reserves to cover the earlier deficits. But the dwindling coffers forced it to resort to public borrowing through treasury bonds of $8 billion last year and $6.7 billion this year.
</top>
<top>
<num> 89
<title> "Downstream" Investments by OPEC Member States
<relevant> Texaco Inc. and the Saudi Arabian Oil Co. said Monday they had begun their previously-disclosed joint venture to refine and market petroleum in the United States. The partnership, known as Star Enterprises, began operation on Sunday, the first day of the year, the companies said in a statement. The partnership will refine, distribute and market petroleum products under the Texaco trademark in 23 East and Gulf Coast states and the District of Columbia. It also has the right to buy up to 600,000 barrels per day of Arabian crude oil at prevailing market prices. The companies announced their plans for the venture on June 16 and signed a definitive agreement on Nov. 10. The agreement called for Texaco to receive $812 million for a 50 percent interest in its refining assets and marketing system in 23 states. The oil company based in White Plains, N.Y., said it expects to enjoy an additional $1 billion in cash benefits and savings resulting from the joint venture. It provides Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest oil exporter, with a secure outlet for its products while virtually guaranteeing Texaco a steady stream of crude at market prices.
<relevant> British Petroleum Co. PLC agreed Tuesday to sell off most of its mineral operations for $4.32 billion and, in a separate transaction, pay $3.57 billion to buy back more than half the 1.32 billion BP shares held by the government of Kuwait. RTZ Corp. PLC, a mining company with global interests, said it agreed to buy the mineral operations, which includes operations in the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Norway, Zimbabwe, South Africa, Australia, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia, for 2.4 billion pounds, or $4.32 billion. The sale includes BP's biggest U.S. asset, Bingham Canyon in Utah, one of the world's largest open pit gold and copper mines, Frank Fisher, BP's director of external affairs in Salt Lake City confirmed Tuesday. However, it does not include most of BP's Canadian mineral assets. The stock buy-back follows a British government order to the Kuwaitis last month to reduce their BP holdings from 21.68 percent to under 10 percent within three years. BP said it was buying 790 million shares from the Kuwait Investment Office, the London-based investment arm of the Kuwaiti government, for 1.95 billion pounds, the equivalent of $3.57 billion. The transaction is subject to approval by BP shareholders, the company said. The British government's order to the Kuwaitis came after a ruling in October by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission that the big Kuwaiti holding could ``operate against the public interest'' because of Kuwait's membership of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. BP chairman Sir Peter Walters said Tuesday that allowing such a large stake in BP shares to remain in limbo ``for a period of up to three years isn't in the interests of the company or its shareholders.'' The Kuwait Investment Office built up its holding by buying partly paid BP stock in the months following the government's 7.2 billion pound, or $13.2 billion, public offering of BP shares in October 1987. The major sale by the Conservative government under its policy of privatization coincided with the stock market crash. The offering, which included the government's remaining 31.5 percent stake in BP, was seriously undersubscribed. BP will pay the Kuwaitis 305 pence each for their shares, compared with a purchase price of 287 pence. However, BP will effectively pay 247 pence a share because of tax credits. BP shares rose as high as 259 pence on Tuesday's announcements, and its partly paid shares gained 10 pence to 157.5 pence on the London Stock Exchange. Meanwhile, RTZ shares rose 7 pence to 424 pence. Walters said BP began negotiating the mineral sales in mid-1988, and said they were not undertaken to finance the share buy-back. The minerals transaction also covers the Canadian-based QIT, the world's leading producer of titanium dioxide; a 49 percent stake in Australia's Olympic Dam copper, uranium, gold and silver mines, and South Africa's Richards Bay Minerals, a top producer of titanium minerals, iron and zircon from beach sands. The BP assets involved had sales of $885.72 million and an operating profit of $329.4 million for the nine months ended Sept. 30.
<relevant> Experts from six OPEC members and seven independent oil-producing nations have taken a step toward joint action to support oil prices, but the move failed to inspire the oil markets. After a day-long meeting Thursday in London, the participants said they agreed to share responsiblity for ensuring market stability and that the non-OPEC countries supported OPEC's target price of $18 a barrel. But no specific actions, such as production cuts, were announced. Oil prices fell immediately on the news, but then recovered somewhat on Friday. The spot price of North Sea Brent Blend, the most widely traded international crude oil, stood at $16.27 a barrel Friday afternoon, up 2 cents from late Thursday. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the March contract for West Texas Intermediate _ the benchmark grade of U.S. crude _ was up 9 cents in early trading today after falling 40 cents on Thursday to settle at $17.72 a barrel. ``It was a satisfactory first step, but we must keep the momentum going,'' Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' Secretary-General Subroto said in an interview. ``The atmosphere at the meeting was very, very encouraging.'' The non-OPEC producers told the OPEC members that they had agreed on a set of actions but that they wished to advise their own ministers before revealing them to OPEC, said Subroto, who chaired the meeting of experts. High-level OPEC sources said the non-OPEC group mentioned the idea of a ceiling on their combined output. The non-OPEC producers didn't ask for anything from OPEC in return, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Cutting production by 5 percent ``is an option,'' Subroto said, without elaborating. Non-OPEC sources had said this week that independent producers might offer to cut their production unilaterally by that amount. This was the second joint meeting of the two sides. The closed gathering also was attended by observers from an additional six independent oil producers. When they met for the first time in April, non-OPEC producers suggested the two sides jointly cut production by 5 percent. OPEC refused, however. OPEC members have expressed resentment that they curb their own production to boost oil prices, from which the independent countries, producing what they like, benefit unfairly. ``At the moment, it looks like it's nothing concrete so it's not the most bullish outcome one could have expected,'' said Philip Morgan, an oil analyst with the London investment firm Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers. ``Even so, I think it's a positive step and if cuts are going to be forthcoming in the second quarter, then this should protect prices from sliding.'' But Paul McDonald, a London-based independent oil analyst, said, ``Yea, but what have they done? They've just said they're in favor of higher oil prices.'' He described the outcome as ``OPEC and non-OPEC hot air'' which he said was designed to manipulate the oil market into taking prices higher. The two sides issued a joint communique which said: ``The independent oil producers supported the OPEC objective of reaching a price of $18 a barrel ... as soon as possible and both sides agreed on the joint responsibility to ensure market stability ....'' ``They agreed on the need to take further steps to enhance improvements already achieved and to further strengthen the oil market, especially in the second quarter of 1989.' The communique added that ``the independent producers agreed to recommend to their appropriate authorities the necessary cooperative measures to contribute to market stability in the coming months.'' The statement didn't specify any measures. Oil ministers from both sides are expected to hold a meeting together at a yet-to-be decided date, Subroto said. The particpating OPEC members were Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Indonesia, Venezuela and Nigeria. The 13-member cartel's other members are Ecuador, Gabon, Libya, Qatar, Iran, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates. The non-OPEC group consisted of representatives of Angola, China, Colombia, Egypt, Malaysia, Mexico, and Oman and observers from the Soviet Union, Norway, the Yemen Arab Republic and the Canadian province of Alberta and the U.S. states of Alaska and Texas. OPEC members agreed in November to limit their production to 18.5 million barrels a day in an effort to boost prices to a targeted $18 a barrel. The agreement was effective Jan. 1. OPEC members are producing an estimated 19.5 million barrels a day, down as much as 3.5 million barrels a day from the fourth quarter. That has helped oil prices recover from around $12 a barrel in December.
<relevant> British Petroleum PLC shareholders on Tuesday approved a $4.2 billion buyback of more than half the 1.32 billion BP shares owned by the government of Kuwait. Approval of the repurchase followed a British government order earlier this month that the Kuwait Investment Office, the London-based investment arm of the Kuwaiti government, reduce its 21.68 percent ownership in the petroleum company to 9.9 percent. An unexpectedly large turnout at the special meeting and the number of proxy votes cast ``show small shareholders have had an interest in what we've been doing and approve,'' BP Chairman Peter Walters said after the vote. Kuwait had been ordered by the British government to dispose of its BP interest above 9.9 percent within three years, but BP said the buyback would remove the element of uncertainty over the pending disposal and ultimately aid the performance of the company's shares. The British government's order to the Kuwaitis came after a ruling in October by the Monopolies and Mergers Commission that the big Kuwaiti holding could ``operate against the public interest'' because of Kuwait's membership in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The Kuwait Investment Office built up its holding by buying partly paid BP stock in the months following the government's 7.2 billion pound, or $13.2 billion, public offering of BP shares in October 1987. The sale by the Conservative government under its policy of privatization coincided with the stock market crash. The offering, which included the government's remaining 31.5 percent stake in BP, was seriously undersubscribed. Although the price BP will pay the Kuwaitis amounts to 305 pence for each of the 790 million shares owned by Kuwait, BP will effectively pay 247 pence a share because of tax credits. Walters said the repurchase would be completed by mid-March.
<relevant> OPEC produced nearly 19.7 million barrels a day of oil in January, more than 1 million barrels over the amount promised under the cartel's new quota system, according to a report released Sunday. The Petroleum Intelligence Weekly said its latest survey of world oil production showed that at least five members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries exceeded their quotas last month, pushing production beyond the 18.5 million barrels pledged at a meeting last November. The new quota was to have taken effect Jan. 1 and extend for six months in an effort to stabilize world prices, which slumped to near 1986 lows last year because of a massive oversupply of oil. The United Arab Emirates was said to be the biggest offender, but other major exporters also overproduced, including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran and Qatar, the survey found. The UAE, whose quota was set at 988,000 barrels a day, produced approximately 1.5 million barrels, the PIW said. However, Iranian output at about 2.7 million barrels a day ``could have important ramifications, since some in OPEC had thought Tehran would only produce about 2.5 million (barrels), 150,000 barrels under its quota, thereby offsetting the impact of UAE excesses,'' the report said. Last year, OPEC production averaged 19.6 million barrels a day, according to the PIW, an 11 percent rise from 1987 and the highest level since 1982, exceeding the 1986 average of 18.4 million barrels a day. Between January and December 1988, OPEC production soared more than 5 million barrels, from 17.3 million to 22.7 million, while non-OPEC production remained flat, the survey showed. The report also indicated fourth-qyarter demand for oil by consuming nations, including the United States, was due in part to temporary factors, such as weather, and might not continue as strong in 1989.
<irrelevant> Iraq has cut oil exports by 90,000 barrels a day in accordance with its new OPEC production quota of 2.64 million barrels a day, the official Iraqi News Agency reported Monday. The agency, monitored in Cyprus, said that as of Jan. 1 Iraq had stopped trucking 65,000 barrels a day to Jordan's Red Sea port of Aqaba and another 25,000 barrels a day through Turkey. Meanwhile, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia on Monday launched a multi-billion deficit budget for fiscal 1989 with a warning that Saudi Arabia would not be bound by OPEC-fixed oil production quotas if others violated them. Iraq currently exports 1.5 million barrels a day through a pipeline across Turkey to Mediterranean ports, and another 500,000 barrels a day through a pipeline across Saudi Arabia to the Red Sea port of Yanbu, the agency said. Iraq's quota, matching that of Iran, was set by the 13-member Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries at a cartel meeting in Vienna in November. Previously Iran had a cap of 2.4 million barrels a day, compared to 1.5 million barrels a day for Iraq, which was heavily exceeding its quota. The former gulf war enemies badly need increased oil revenues in order to rebuild economies shattered by 8 years of hostilities. In Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, the official Saudi Press Agency said budget outlays for the world's biggest oil-exporting nation were approved at a weekly cabinet session chaired by King Fahd. Expenditures were set at 141 million riyals, or about $37.6 billion, against projected revenues of 116 billion riyals, or $30.9 billion. That left a deficit of 25 billion riyals, or $6.7 billion, down from 35.9 billion riyals for 1988, to be covered by public borrowing, the agency said. Budget deficits have become a chronic problem in Saudi Arabia and other oil-producing nations since crude prices started slipping in the early 1980s because of a world glut. The new restrictive OPEC quota system took effect on Sunday in a fresh attempt to remedy the situation. King Fahd stressed the importance of ``discipline and adherence'' to the quotas if prices are to improve. He warned that although Saudi Arabia is ``the first state to abide by what OPEC agrees to... I don't think that anyone can blame the kingdom if the contract is broken.'' ``We do not want to see that to happen under any circumstances and it is hoped that the losses suffered by the OPEC states give an idea of what can result from a chaos, as happened a few years ago and again a year ago,'' he added.
<irrelevant> Share prices closed near their intra-day lows Tuesday as a drop on Wall Street and a weaker dollar cast a shadow over the London market's first trading session of 1989. Traders expressed disappointment about the generally thin trading volumes, since many participants had hoped for renewed institutional interest in the market as the Christmas and New Year holiday season came to an end. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 index closed down 10.3 points at 1,782.8, near the day's low of 1,782.4, off 10.7, which came soon after the official 9 a.m. market opening. The market was briefly enlivened in the afternoon by news that British Petroleum Co. plans to buy back a large slice of the 22 percent BP stake owned by the Kuwait Investment Office, the London-based investment arm of the Kuwait government. The announcement was made at the same time that British Petroleum and RTZ Corp. announced a price tag of $4.32 billion for the minerals assets that BP is selling to RTZ in the largest private deal ever concluded between two British firms. The news provoked rises in BP and RTZ share prices and generated better than average trading volumes in the two stocks. The market managed a brief rally around midday, reaching an intra-day peak of 1,790.7, off 2.4 points, before plunging lower again during the afternoon. The narrower Financial Times 30-share index closed 7.5 points lower at 1,447.8. Volume was a modest 323.8 million shares, down from 377.3 million shares on Thursday, the last full-day trading session.
<irrelevant> Venezuelan President-elect Carlos Andres Perez said Wednesday he is confident there will be increased cooperation from the United States under George Bush in helping Latin America overcome its foreign debt burden. ``We will have the opportunity for great (American) cooperation with our countries in Latin America, great opportunities for development,'' said Perez, who recently had several meetings with the U.S. President-elect. Perez said Wednesday's visit with new Mexican president Carlos Salinas de Gortari is part of a effort by Latin American leaders to find a reasonable solution to the debt problem. ``We seek agreement among Latin American countries to find reasonable solutions with our creditors,'' Perez told reporters before speaking to Salinas. ``We seek agreement in search of an understanding and not confrontation.'' Venezuela on Saturday suspended payments on a large chunk of its $35 billion foreign debt, claiming it was short of money because of low prices for crude oil. Mexico is trying to renegotiate payments on its $106 billion debt, the second largest after Brazil among developing countries. Both nations say that debt payments are eating so much money that they don't have enough left for investment and economic growth. Perez and Salinas also discussed oil, a major source of foreign revenues for both nations. ``Our countries have suffered the buffeting of the fall in prices, but in my meeting with the president of Mexico, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, I expressed to him my optimism about the possibilities of a stablization of the petroleum market soon,'' Perez told a news conference Wednesday night before leaving the country. He also announced that this week he would travel to Brazil for a similar meeting with President Jose Sarney. Venezuela is a founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, a 13-nation cartel that has faced trouble in bolstering prices. Mexico, the world's sixth largest exporter, is not a member of OPEC but follows the cartel's guidelines. About half the oil that Pemex, the Mexican state petroleum monopoly, sells abroad goes to the United States. Perez said if no solution is found to the debt problem, the severe economic difficulties currently afflicting Venezuela, Brazil and Mexico will extend to more countries. Perez said debt negotiations ``should be bilateral, but the countries should seek to strengthen our bargaining power through the establishment of a single Latin American position.'' ``I don't want to turn into a lawyer for the banks, but the banks are tied by the policies established by the (U.S.) Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve ... and that is why it is essential that we ask the U.S. government to change its attitude,'' Perez said. Perez said he was optimistic OPEC will be able to keep prices from falling further, but he described the debt as ``a vise on the economy'' of Venezuela.
<irrelevant> Venezuelan President-elect Carlos Andres Perez says he and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico have agreed to combat falling oil prices and the massive foreign debts facing their nation's economies. ``Our countries have suffered the buffeting of the fall in (oil) prices,'' Perez told a news conference Wednesday after he met with Salinas during a one-day visit to Mexico. But he said that he shared with the new Mexican president ``optimism about the possibilities of a stabilization of the petroleum market soon.'' Perez, who will be inaugurated Feb. 2, said tentative steps toward strengthening the oil market could be made during a meeting of representatives from non-OPEC governments scheduled for late January in London. Venezuela is a founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the 13-nation price-fixing cartel that in the past was unable to limit its members' oil exports to bolster prices. Perez said he was optimistic OPEC would be able to keep prices from falling further. Mexico, the world's sixth largest oil producer, is not a member of OPEC but closely follows the cartel's pricing and production guidelines. About half the oil that Pemex, the Mexican state petroleum monopoly, sells abroad goes to the United States. He also said he and Salinas discussed the foreign debt, which he said acted like ``a vise on the economy'' of Venezuela. He said the two leaders agreed to continue discussions on the debt with other Latin American heads of state, and announced he planned to visit President Jose Sarney of Brazil later this week. ``We seek agreement among Latin American countries to find reasonable solutions with our creditors,'' Perez declared earlier Wednesday. He said he believed the United States, under President-elect George Bush, could help Latin America overcome its foreign debt burden. ``We will have the opportunity for great (American) cooperation with our countries in Latin America, great opportunities for development,'' said Perez, who met recently with Bush. Venezuela on Saturday suspended principal payments on most of its $26 billion in foreign bank debt, claiming it was short of money because of low prices for its crude oil exports. Mexico is trying to renegotiate payments on its $106 billion debt, the second largest after Brazil's among developing countries. Both nations say debt payments don't leave enough money for investment and economic growth. He said Venezuela's decision to suspend debt payments was taken after exhausting all efforts to comply with its commitments. The measure also was taken ``to ask for a fairer treatment'' from creditors, he said. Perez said if no solution is found to the debt problem, the severe economic difficulties of Venezuela, Brazil and Mexico could extend to other countries. Perez said he will seek ``rational negotiations'' after he takes office ``in search of understanding and not confrontation.'' He said Venezuela's export income amounted to $7 billion in 1988, while debt servicing totalled $5.6 billion.
<irrelevant> A Texas Congressman says the Reagan administration's failure to review a joint petroleum refining and marketing venture between Texaco Inc. and Saudi Arabia is ``irresponsible and shortsighted.'' Rep. John Bryant last month asked Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to investigate the joint venture, Star Enterprise, on national security grounds. He and three other Democratic members of Congress _ Sens. Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio and Jeff Bingamon of New Mexico and Rep. Edward Markey of Massachusetts _ contended the acquisition falls under the law enabling the government to block mergers involving foreign interests if there is evidence national security is threatened. ``This is a perfect indication of how totally addicted this administration is to foreign cash and foreign takeovers to maintain their illusion of an economy that's going in the right direction,'' Bryant said. Bryant claimed this week that the Texaco-Saudi deal presented ``legitimate national security'' concerns. Texaco Inc. and Saudia Arabia announced Monday that they had closed the deal, under which Texaco and Saudi Refining Inc. would refine, distribute and market petroleum products in 23 Eastern and Gulf Coast States. Texaco said last year it expected to receive $812 million for a 50 percent interest in its refining assets and marketing system and an additional $1 billion in benefits and savings. Bryant contends the deal could seriously increase U.S. dependence on foreign oil, erode the domestic oil industry, and jeopardize consumers through possible market manipulation. An interagency panel chaired by the Treasury Department, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, declined recently to review the venture, a Treasury spokesman said Thursday. ``The committee decided not to oppose this; the committee decided not to investigate, that there was no reason to investigate,'' said the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity. He said the committee had looked at the proposed venture in June and reached the same conclusion. The administration in general favors foreign investment in the United States, the spokesman said, ``unless there is an overriding reason _ national security, national interest _ to deny it. We favor international movement of capital, and that includes into the United States.'' The Saudi-Texaco venture would include three refineries, 50 distribution terminals, 1,400 service stations and 10,000 franchised gasoline stations. Bryant said 96 percent of the three refineries' capacity would be used to refine Saudi crude. Bryant said that amounts to Saudi Arabia guaranteeing itself an outlet for crude oil into the American market, giving the Arab nation the option of lowering crude prices while earning increased prices at the gasoline marketing level. ``I feel very concerned that it (the deal) is going forward without any review of the type the statute called for. It is consistent with administration practices to go along with any kind of foreign takeover of any kind of American company. It's been their economic policy,'' Bryant said. ``The purpose of the inquiry was to look and see if concerns we had had some validity. To not even look is irresponsible and shortsighted,'' he said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 90
<title> Data on Proven Reserves of Oil & Natural Gas
<relevant> Consolidated Natural Gas Co. said Friday it has formed a joint venture with a Japanese company to buy natural gas and oil properties in the Gulf of Mexico for $245 million in cash. Consolidated said its subsidiary, CNG Producing Co., will hold a 60 percent interest in Houston-based Mark Producing Inc. and will operate the newly acquired oil and gas fields. Japex Corp., a unit of Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. Ltd., will hold a 40 percent stake. Mark Producing has extensive natural gas and oil properties in the Gulf of Mexico, including one well listed by the Department of the Interior as holding the industry record for the highest daily gas production rate recorded for the Gulf, Consolidated said. The deal includes the acquisition of proved and estimated reserves of approximately 190 billion cubic feet of natural gas and some 5 million barrels of oil on approximately 178,000 acres in the Gulf. In 1988, the properties produced about 600,000 barrels of oil and more than 25 billion cubic feet of gas, the company said. Pittsburgh-based CNG is one of the nation's largest producers, transporters and distributors of natural gas, operating primarily in the northeastern United States. ``This acquisition is a near-perfect fit with the existing offshore operations of CNG Producing Co.,'' said George A. Davidson Jr., Consolidated's chairman and chief executive officer.
<relevant> The Arabian American Oil Co. said Tuesday that Saudi Arabia's estimated oil reserves are more than 50 percent higher than previously estimated. Aramco said that a new study estimates Saudi Arabia's recoverable crude oil reserves at 252.38 billion barrels. That's about one-fourth of the world's total known reserves and significantly higher than the 171.5 billion barrels previously estimated. Aramco, based in the capital of Saudi Arabia's oil-producing eastern province, also estimated Saudi gas reserves at 177.294 trillion cubic feet, up from approximately 141.80 trillion estimated a year ago. The Aramco report, distributed by the official Saudi Press Agency, said that untapped reserves could raise the estimates to 315 billion barrels of oil and 253 trillion cubic feet of gas. By comparison, the United States has estimated oil reserves of 27 billion barrels and the Soviet Union, the world's largest oil producer, some 63 billion barrels. The new estimates followed six years of intensive study by a computerized engineering center in Dhahran manned by the world's largest grouping of oil experts and engineers with the most sophisticated equipment available, Aramco said. Saudi Arabia and neighboring gulf countries sit on two-thirds of the world's oil proven reserves. Saudi Arabia is the largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the world's largest oil exporter. Other members of OPEC also recently have increased their government estimates of proven reserves in what some analysts say is part of an ongoing power struggle within the cartel. Iraq, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, all OPEC countries, each have reported estimated reserves of around 100 billion barrels. The amount of reserves a country has are believed to be one factor used by OPEC to establish production quotas. The Arabic-language report did not use the word ``proven'' for the latest estimate, but it was implied through the comparison with the untapped resources. Proven oil reserves are those that can be produced at current prices with current technology. King Fahd, who is currently visiting the eastern province, last week chaired a cabinet meeting that ratified Saudi Arabia's 1989 budget which showed a deficit for the sixth straight year because of weak oil prices. The kingdom drew on its reserves to cover the earlier deficits. But the dwindling coffers forced it to resort to public borrowing through treasury bonds of $8 billion last year and $6.7 billion this year.
<relevant> Six members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries now have 70.5 percent of the world's proven oil reserves, the Middle East Economic Survey reported Monday. The respected oil industry newsletter said that, according to revised estimates, reserves for the ``big six'' in the last five years has risen from 308 billion barrels to a total of 699 billion barrels. It listed Saudi Arabia with 255 billion barrels, Iraq with 100 billion, the United Arab Emirates with 98 billion, Kuwait with 95 billion, Iran with 93 billion and Venezuela with 58 billion. The five Persian Gulf states alone account for nearly two-thirds of the world's proven reserves. Saudi Arabia last week upgraded its reserves by 85 billion barrels to 255 billion following a six-year study. The Arabian American Oil Co. noted that with additional development and exploration their ``remaining reserves could be as high as 313 billion barrels of oil.'' Describing the Saudi revision as ``a staggering increase,'' the Nicosia-based survey noted: ``The reassessment of reserves in Saudi Arabia represents the latest stage of a truly massive upward revision of proven oil reserves by the major OPEC countries in recent years.'' In other OPEC news Monday, Venezuelan president-elect Carlos Andres Perez arrived in Abu Dhabi as part of a Gulf swing designed to bolster unity within OPEC and stablize oil prices. He said he would discuss with Gulf leaders the possibility of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries holding a summit. Such a summit, if held, would be the second since 1975. However, U.A.E. oil minister Mana Saeed Otaiba, who is participating in the talks with Perez, said he believes that such a summit is premature. During his gulf tour, Perez was scheduled to visit Iraq and Iran, OPEC members who have been at war for eight years until a cease-fire agreement was reached in August. The U.A.E. has been one of the OPEC states often accused of overshooting OPEC production quotas and contributing to the glut that weakened oil prices.
<relevant> NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) _ Here are some facts and figures on Iran: and the oil-rich Persian Gulf, covers 988,800 square miles. It is ringed by mountains, with the center largely desert covering an area the size of France. The Zagros range, including the 18,386-foot Mount Nahavand, runs from the Soviet border in the northwest to the gulf. Shiite sect. But there are Kurdish, Georgian, Turkoman and Circassians, mostly in the north, with Afghan, Arab and Hindu minorities in the Southeast. There are also dwindling groups of Bahais and Jews. Two million Iranians were displaced by the war with Iraq. Another 2 million have fled abroad since the 1979 revolution. producer after Saudi Arabia before the 1979 Islamic revolution. It has estimated reserves of 100 billion barrels. The conflict with Iraq drove revenues down from a prewar $18 billion a year in 1979 as low as $6 billion in recent years. Iran also has the world's second-biggest natural gas deposits with 13.86 trillion cubic meters of proven reserves, and is rich in iron, lead, zinc, copper, chromium, magnesium, sulphur and salt. It is also famous for Persian carpets. empire under King Cyrus in the 6th Century B.C. Alexander the Great defeated the Persians in 331 B.C. Arab Moslems later ruled for three centuries until defeated by the Mongols in 1258. The Safavids and Qajars ruled in turn until 1925, when they were overthrown by Reza Khan. His son, the late Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, ascended the throne in 1941 and was toppled in the 1979 Islamic revolution. That dramatically altered the geopolitical map of the oil-rich gulf region. Iraq invaded Iran on Sept.22, 1980. After initial defeats, the Iranians pushed the Iraqis out. They later seized chunks of Iraq, but lost them in a string of 1988 defeats and were forced to accept a United Nations cease-fire that ended one of the century's longest conflicts.
<relevant> Political leaders called on the government Monday to strengthen relations with foreign companies to exploit a giant crude oil discoveries in the Amazon jungle and ease Peru's acute economic problems. President Alan Garcia announced Saturday that Occidental Petroleum Corp. had discovered an estimated 600 million barrels of oil in a remote area, which if confirmed would more than double Peru's current proven reserves. Garcia valued the oil at $10 billion or more, and said it would supply Peru's domestic needs and export requirements for 15 years. Gaston Acurio of the opposition center-right party Popular Action said in a radio interview Monday that the government must ``offer sufficient guarantees to foreign companies to ensure the oil does not remain below the ground.'' Garcia's announcement came against a background of strained relations between the impoverished South American nation and foreign companies. Several foreign oil concerns operated in Peru during the late 1970s after oil was discovered in the Amazon and oil became Peru's major foreign exchange earner. Since then, political unrest and changing policies have frightened most foreign firms, while restricting Occidental and the state oil company Petro-Peru from expanding production and exploration. Since Garcia took office in mid-1985, the government has nationalized a handful of foreign companies and taken other steps considered hostile to investment from abroad, including limits on repayment of foreign loans. Occidental now is the only foreign oil company actively exploring oil production, the government says. Officials did not comment Monday on the possibility of financing Peru's estimated $19 billion foreign debt with potential income from the reported jungle oil find. Crude production has fallen during the decade from a high of nearly 200,000 barrels a day to 140,000 barrels, slightly more than Peru needs for domestic use. Former Finance Minister Javier Silva, a senator from the centrist Solidarity and Democracy Party, charged Garcia overestimated the oil discovery in an effort to divert attention from the nation's problems. ``I fear we are dealing once again with a smoke curtain to hide a grave internal situation marked by leftist guerrilla violence and an economic crisis,'' he was quoted by the Lima newspaper Expreso as saying. Royal Dutch Shell Oil Company a year ago announced the discovery of natural gas in a jungle zone near the Ucayali region estimated at 7 trillion cubic feet, the energy equivalent of 1.2 billion barrels of oil. But a tentative contract with Shell to produce the gas was scrapped amid bitter internal debate led by leftist politicians, who said the contract exploited the Peruvians. A year ago, the government revealed a tentative contract exploration contract had been reached with Mobil Oil Corp. but the firm denied the statement a day later. Occidental Petroleum spokesman Armando Lasarte Monday refused to confirm or deny any of the comments made by Garcia concerning the discovery and its estimated size. He referred further questions to the state oil company Petro-Peru, which also refused to comment. Industry analysts said it will take at least two years and cost more than $2 billion to contruct a pipeline from the zone over the two-mile high Andes to coastal population centers. Officials also said such a pipeline would face sabotage by Maoist Shining Path guerrillas, whose nearly nine-year insurgency has claimed more than 12,000 lives and caused damage of more than $10 billion.
<irrelevant> President Reagan announced Tuesday he has decided against tariffs or other action to curb oil imports, although conceding that ``the free world will become increasingly dependent on oil supplies from potentially insecure sources.'' The president acted on the recommendation of Commerce Secretary William Verity, who he said reported to him that import restrictions ``would not be cost effective and, in the long run, would impair rather than enhance national security.'' Verity's report was the outcome of an investigation requested in December 1987 by the National Energy Security Committee, a domestic oil industry group which said the president should use his powers to restrict import of goods where imports would hurt national security. Reagan said Verity concluded that ``there has been a substantial improvement in U.S. energy security'' since the last similar investigation in 1979. ``However, declining domestic oil production, rising oil imports and growing free world dependence on potentially insecure sources of supply raise a number of concerns, including vulnerability to a major supply disruption,'' the president said. ``The investigation found that the maintenance of U.S. access to sufficient supplies of petroleum is essential to our economic security, foreign policy flexibility and defense preparedness,'' he said. ``Given these factors, the secretary of commerce found that petroleum imports threaten to impair the national security.'' Imports of crude oil and refined products currently are running at about 41 percent of consumption, up from 31.5 percent in 1985 but not yet back to the 47.7 percent recorded in 1977, the peak year for imports. Several forecasts, including those of the Energy Department, predict that imports will reach and pass 50 percent in the 1990s. A department study concluded in 1987 that a $10-a-barrel tariff would add 120,000 jobs in the oil industry but cost 400,000 elsewhere in the economy; would bring $46 billion worth of benefits at a cost of $200 billion. Secretary John Herrington has said exemptions that would be politically necessary in any tariff plan to accommodate Canada and residential users of home heating oil in the U.S. Northeast would make it unworkable. Reagan said that, in deciding not to recommend any import restrictions, Verity took into account the administration's program to improve energy security. In particular, Reagan cited decontrol of oil prices and elimination of allocation controls as actions his administration has taken to strengthen the domestic oil industry. ``The Strategic Petroleum Reserve contains over 555 million barrels, compared to 108 million barrels eight years ago,'' he said. ``Today the nation is far less vulnerable to an oil supply disruption than in 1973 or 1979,'' he added. ``Despite these improvements, important energy security concerns remain,'' the president said, citing rising oil consumption, declining U.S. crude production and rising oil imports. ``In addition, projections show that the free world will become increasingly dependent on oil supplies from potentially insecure sources.'' In a message to Congress that accompanied his statement, the president urged the lawmakers to deregulate natural gas prices, permit expanded oil exploration in Alaska and the Outer Continental Shelf, liberalize the depletion allowance for oil and gas producers, streamline nuclear power licensing procedures and sell the Naval Petroleum Reserves at Elk Hills, Calif., and Teapot Dome, Wyo. The administration has advocated all these measures in Congress in recent years, but without success. The 1979 study was requested by the Treasury Department in 1978. Based on that study, then-President Carter determined that oil imports were a threat to U.S. security.
<irrelevant> President Reagan said Tuesday he has decided against any oil import fee or other action to curb oil imports but conceded that ``the free world will become increasingly dependent on oil supplies from potentially insecure sources.'' The president said he acted on the recommendation of Commerce Secretary C. William Verity who reported that import restrictions ``would not be cost effective and, in the long run, would impair rather than enhance national security.'' Verity's report was the outcome of an investigation requested in December, 1987, by the National Energy Security Committee, the president said. He said Verity concluded that ``there has been a substantial improvement in U.S. energy security'' since the last similar investigation in 1979. In a message to Congress that accompanied his statement, the president urged lawmakers to deregulate natural gas prices, permit expanded oil exploration in Alaska and the outer Continental Shelf and liberalize the depletion allowance for oil and gas producers. Reagan said that declining domestic oil production, rising oil imports and growing free world dependence on potentially insecure sources of supply raise a number of concerns, including vulnerability to a major supply disruption. ``The investigation found that the maintenance of U.S. access to sufficient supplies of petroleum is essential to our economic security, foreign policy flexibility and defense preparedness,'' he said. ``Given these factors, the secretary of commerce found that petroleum imports threaten to impair the national security.'' He said that, in deciding not to recommend any import restrictions, Verity took into account the administration's program to improve energy security. In particular, Reagan cited decontrol of oil prices and elimination of allocation controls as actions his administration has taken to strengthen the domestic oil industry. ``The Strategic Petroleum Reserve contains over 555 million barrels, compared to 108 million barrels eight years ago,'' he said. ``Today the nation is far less vulnerable to an oil supply disruption than in 1973 or 1979.'' Despite these improvements, important energy security concerns remain, the president said, citing rising oil consumption, declining U.S. crude production and rising oil imports. ``In addition, projections show that the free world will become increasingly dependent on oil supplies from potentially insecure sources.'' he said. The president also called on Congress to streamline nuclear power licensing procedures and sell the Naval Petroleum Reserves at Elk Hills, Calif., and Teapot Dome, Wyo.
<irrelevant> The Coastal Corp. announced Wednesday it would begin construction this year of a 1,000-mile natural gas pipeline from southwestern Wyoming to California. The $665 million project, given final approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Wednesday, will eventually transport 400 million cubic feet of gas a day from Wyoming, Coastal said. The gas will be used mainly to generate steam for recovering heavy oil from California wells. Harold Burrow, chairman of WyCal and vice chairman of Coastal, said the pipeline will begin transporting gas to California by early 1991. Colorado Interstate Gas Co., a subsidiary of Coastal, will build and operate the project, Burrow said.
<irrelevant> President-elect Bush's choice of an energy secretary with nuclear expertise but no experience in other energy fields drew little praise and some concern Friday from industry and environmental groups. In announcing his selection of Adm. James D. Watkins to head the Energy Department, Bush said Thursday that Watkins would oversee the daunting task of repairing the department's crippled nuclear weapons complex. Safety and other problems recently forced the closing of the country's only facilities producing tritium, a vital ingredient for nuclear warheads. Watkins was trained in nuclear reactor engineering early in his 41-year Navy career, worked in the Naval nuclear office of the now-defunct Atomic Energy Commission and later commanded a nuclear-power submarine. But he has no professional experience in the conventional energy areas, such as oil and natural gas, that are more commonly associated with the Energy Department. ``You're touching me on my Achilles' heel,'' Watkins said in response to a news conference question Thursday about his views on how to shore up domestic oil prices. This admitted weakness, and Bush's clear interest in focusing on problems in the nuclear weapons complex, has caused some concern about how the new administration will address other energy issues such as the growing U.S. dependence on foreign oil. ``Our initial reaction is definitely one of disappointment,'' said Tom Haywood, executive vice president of the North Texas Oil &amp; Gas Association, a producers trade group. ``We had hoped for someone who could come in knowing the domestic oil business,'' he said, adding that he expected Watkins to be a ``quick study.'' Bryan Jacobowski, an energy analyst at the Wall Street firm of Paine Webber Inc., said oil industry executives had figured Bush would pick ``somebody who was a bit more of an advocate'' for their interests on Capitol Hill. In part, the selection of a military official to head energy policy reflects a declining emphasis within the Energy Department on civilian energy issues. In the current fiscal year the department is spending 58 percent of its $15 billion budget on defense programs; in 1982 the defense share was 28 percent. George H. Lawrence, president of the American Gas Association, representing natural gas producers, hailed Watkins' ``proven managerial skills'' and said his nuclear background will help in solving the nuclear defense problems. But, he said, ``It is especially important that this national security issue be handled skillfully ... so it does not become an abiding distraction to other energy issues.'' The natural gas industry's main concern about leadership in the Energy Department is that it help win congressional approval to end the remaining price controls on gas. Bush has pushed aside suggestions that oil executives need worry about his choice. ``They've got a president of the United States that came out of the oil and gas industry, that knows it and knows it well,'' he said Thursday. Some analysts said the Watkins choice appeared to reflect a relaxed attitude by Bush about the possibility of a new oil crisis developing in the 1990s. ``It suggests the (Bush) administration doesn't see a major problem in fossil fuels in the near future,'' said John Lichtblau, executive director of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, which is supported by oil industry funds. He added that he disagrees with this view and is concerned that if the OPEC cartel falls into disarray again, oil prices could fall low enough to harm U.S. security. Environmental groups also expressed mild concern about Watkins. Stephen Schwartz, of the Greenpeace environmental organization, said he hoped the choice of Watkins ``does not reflect a decision to place military production needs ahead of safety and the environment.'' Dan W. Reicher, an attorney for the environmental group Natural Resources Defense Council, said his group was worried that nuclear defense needs would get too much attention in an Energy Department headed by a career military man. ``We are concerned that the appointment of Adm. Watkins signals that cleaning up the bomb plants and developing a sound national energy policy will continue to be sacrificed in the name of nuclear weapons production,'' Reicher said.
<irrelevant> Former employees of Tenneco Inc. announced Monday they had formed a new company to explore for oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico. Newfield Exploration Co. will be headquartered in Lafayette, La. and initially staffed by about 25 former employees of Tenneco Oil Exploration and Production. Joe B. Foster, former executive vice president of Houston-based Tenneco, will serve as chairman and chief executive officer. ``We will have management and employees who have worked together and established a superior track record in oil and gas exploration,'' Foster said. ``We will focus on an area of the Gulf of Mexico which is gas prone, where the group has knowledge, and has had good success.'' Duncan Cook &amp; Co., a Houston investment firm headed by former U.S. Energy Secretary Charles W. Duncan Jr., is providing initial funding and investment advice for the venture. Late last year, Tenneco sold all its oil and gas segments to various buyers. The sale brought the company $7.3 billion.
</top>
<top>
<num> 91
<title> U.S. Army Acquisition of Advanced Weapons Systems
<relevant> Under President Reagan's tenure as commander-in-chief, the military has experienced its largest peacetime buildup. Here, at a glance, are some of the changes that have taken place in the past eight years. BUDGET: Annual Pentagon spending in terms of budget authority rose from $213.8 billion in fiscal 1982 _ the first full year of Reagan's presidency _ to $290.8 billion in fiscal 1989. In all, the administration allocated $2.13 trillion to the Department of Defense, an amount that does not include Department of Energy spending on nuclear warheads. NAVY: The number of carrier battlegroups has increased from 12 when Reagan took office to 15. Modernization programs include purchase of eight Trident submarines, four Nimitz-class aircraft carriers, 33 new Aegis cruisers, 27 nuclear-powered attack submarines, new WASP class amphibious ships, four modernized battleships and two hospital ships. In naval manpower, the service increased its number of petty officers to 54,000 after a shortage of 22,000 in 1981. The administration gained approval for a 600-ship fleet but was forced to scale back its request. ARMY: The Army's modernization resulted in purchases of 397 AH-64 Apaches, an all-weather attack helicopter; 924 Blackhawks, a modern utility helicopter; 5,350 M-1A1 Abrams tanks, and 3,913 Bradley fighting vehicles. The Army also fielded 416 MLRS's, multiple launcher rocket systems. Under department reorganization, two new light divisions were formed that would allow forces to get to troubled areas quickly. The Army also persuaded Congress to authorize for the first time in more than a decade a new type of chemical weapon for the U.S. stockpile. MARINES: Modernization included purchase of more than 100 AV-8B vertical takeoff attack jets and development of a new air-cushion landing craft for amphibious assaults. AIR FORCE: The Air Force's modernization included the purchase of 100 B-1B bombers, hundreds of F-15 and F-16 jet fighters and deployment of the MX missile and air-launched cruise missile. Development also took place on the new B-2 stealth bomber, the new AMRAAM air-to-air dogfighting missile and the C-17 cargo plane. Following the January 1986 explosion of the space shuttle Challenger, the Air Force restarted production lines for several types of unmanned rocket boosters. MANPOWER: The personnel levels have remained constant at about 2.1 million as have the number of admirals and generals. STRATEGIC DEFENSE INTIATIVE: Reagan created this program, commonly known as Star Wars, to search for exotic weapons that could be used to automatically shoot down Soviet nuclear missiles and shield the United States and its allies. Although Congress routinely cut Reagan's spending requests, the program will receive more than $4 billion this year for research and development.
<irrelevant> With the skirmish over the Mediterranean serving as a backdrop, the Reagan administration readied an urgent appeal Wednesday to industrialized nations to deny chemical weapons technology to Libya and to approve economic penalties for poison gas users. Even before U.S. jets shot down two Libyan fighter planes near Crete, the Reagan administration had served not-so-subtle notice to the world that it considers Moammar Gadhafi's drive to produce poison gas _ an allegation the Libyan leader has consistently denied _ a serious threat to world stability. In the wake of the clash, Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci and other senior U.S. officials sought to separate the incident from the drumbeat of alarm the Reagan administration has sounded for more than two months over the facility near the desert town of Rabta, about 40 miles south of Tripoli. The skirmish is bound to be center-stage at the chemical warfare conference that opens Saturday in Paris. And yet, William Burns, the U.S. arms control director, said ``it is not aimed at bashing a particular country.'' Referring to the U.S. downing of two Libyan jets, Burns told reporters at the State Department: ``I don't see it as really germane to the conference. I think that other nations will not see it as germane as well.'' He said the American delegation will focus on trying to strengthen the authority of United Nations Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar to investigate allegations of chemical weapons use and to authorize the U.N. General Assembly or Security Council to impose sanctions on nations that ``challenge world order.'' Burns conceded, however, this could be difficult since all actions will be taken by consensus. This means a single participant, such as Libya, could hold off an overwhelming majority. Mindful of the U.S. bombardment of the Libyan capital in April 1986, in which 37 persons including an adopted daughter of Gadhafi perished, a sense of foreboding enveloped the conference even before foreign ministers and ambassadors from more than 100 countries began to assemble in the French capital. It is routine for the United States not to rule out any option, including a military strike. And yet, when President Reagan took this familiar stance last month the world took notice. The downing of the two Libyan jets on Wednesday kept attention fastened on the Libyan facility. Secretary of State George P. Shultz, who flies to Paris on Thursday and will hold talks there through Sunday, will concentrate his efforts on the industrialized countries. Charles E. Redman, the State Department spokesman, said the key was to deny Gadhafi the equipment, material and expertise to produce poison gas. ``If these kind of things are going to be cut off it's going to be very difficult for a plant of this kind to operate,'' he said. The 1925 international protocol under review in Paris bans the use of chemical weapons, but does not outlaw their production. Some 20 nations, by U.S. estimate, either have produced chemical weapons or are capable of manufacturing them. The protocol has no enforcement mechanism. Its effectiveness depends on the self-discipline of the 130 nations that are parties to the pact. At one time, the civilized world abhorred poison gas. But Iraq, which signed the 1925 agreement, discovered in the Persian Gulf war that chemical weapons were effective against numerically superior Iranian forces. And some Third World countries resent interference with their chemical industries. To try to stem proliferation, Redman said ``we are prepared to discuss the strongest possible measures'' against countries that export chemical weapons technology. The West European governments have responded with some skepticism to the U.S. allegations against Libya and its alleged suppliers, however. West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher said Wednesday his government had no evidence proving West German pharmaceutical firm had helped build the plant at Rabta. A spokesman for Genscher said, meanwhile, Bonn had accused Washington for ``additional material'' to back up the allegation. But the Reagan administration has not pulled back. Robert M. Gates, a former CIA deputy director who was named last week as deputy director of the National Security Council, said in a recent speech that the plant was built with the help of ``nearly a dozen nations, East and West.'' He declined to name them. The United States stopped production of chemical weapons in 1969, then resumed 17 years later on the grounds the Soviet Union and other potential adversaries had chemical weapons programs. Currently, U.S. chemical components and artillery shells to contain them are being produced but stockpiled separately. The Soviet Union acknowledged in 1987 possession of chemical weapons, then claimed to have ceased production. A foreign ministry spokesman said 50,000 tons would be stored, the rest destroyed. Officials of the two countries have held nine sessions in Geneva to plan ways to restrict proliferation. So far, the United States and the Soviet Union are the only two countries in the world to admit possessing chemical weapons.
<irrelevant> Secretary of State George P. Shultz was embarking today on a mission to persuade more than 100 nations to impose sanctions on countries that use poison gas. He also planned to urge foreign ministers and ambassadors assembling for a five-day conference in Paris to strengthen the hand of U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar in investigating allegations of chemical warfare. The skirmish Wednesday over the Mediterranean in which U.S. Navy jet fighters shot down two Libyan MiG-23 planes acted as a backdrop for the conference, which opens Saturday. William Burns, director of the U.S. arms control agency, acknowledged that decisions at the meeting will be by consensus. This means any nation, including Libya, can block proposals. ``I don't know how successful we will be, and I don't know how much of a resonant chord this will strike in the hearts of other participants,'' Burns told reporters Wednesday at the State Department. Still, Burns said, Shultz will push for sanctions under the United Nations charter and for additional powers for the U.N. Secretary-General. The Paris conference was proposed by President Reagan in September to draw international attention to the spreading use of chemical weapons. The focus then was on Iraq, which was accused of _ and denied _ devastating Iranian troops and civilians with poison gas. For the last two months, however, the United States has put special stress on Libya and a plant at Rabta, south of Tripoli, the State Department claims has recently begun limited production of chemical weapons. Even before U.S. jets shot down the Libyan fighter planes near Crete on Wednesday, the Reagan administration had served not-so-subtle notice to the world that it considers Moammar Gadhafi's drive to produce poison gas _ an allegation the Libyan leader has consistently denied _ a serious threat to world stability. Shultz, in an interview on the eve of his departure, told The Washington Post the administration was raising ``a big stew'' over the plant because of Libya's ``known connections to terrorist groups.'' After the clash, Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci and other senior U.S. officials sought to separate the incident from the drumbeat of alarm the Reagan administration has sounded over the suspected chemical weapons facility. The Libyan plant controversy is bound to have an impact on the conference. And yet, Burns said ``it is not aimed at bashing a particular country.'' Referring to the air clash, Burns added: ``I don't see it as really germane to the conference. I think that other nations will not see it as germane as well.'' Carlucci, at a news conference at the Pentagon, said the Libyan jets had approached the U.S. F-14 Tomcats at high speed and in ``a hostile manner'' in international airspace. He said the Navy planes acted solely in self-defense. Based on preliminary reports, the MiGs activated their radar before the Tomcats opened fire with air-to-air missiles, Carlucci said. Congressional leaders said the United States had acted appropriately, but expressed concern that the incident might portend further hostilities with Libya. House Majority Whip Tony Coelho, D-Calif., said ``Congress should be informed ... if the United States is engaged in a piecemeal escalation of our conflict with Libya beyond these legitimate acts of self-defense.'' Libya, meanwhile, condemned the U.S. firing as a premeditated attack, and Gadhafi, the Libyan leader, declared his North African nation would ``meet challenge with challenge.'' ``If America has prevailed because it is a superpower in the air and the sea, it will inevitably be defeated in Libya,'' Gadhafi said. ``We, as well as the fish, are awaiting them.'' European officials reacted cautiously to the incident, while Israel applauded the U.S. action and Yasser Arafat, chairman of the Palestine Liberiation Organization, and the Arab world sharply criticized the United States. The downing of the two Libyan jets kept attention fastened on the suspected Libyan chemical plant as delegates to the Paris conference began assembling. Shultz, who will be in Paris through Sunday, will urge industrialized countries to deny technology to other nations bent on developing chemical weapons. Charles E. Redman, the State Department spokesman, said the key to the Libyan situation was to deprive Gadhafi of the equipment, material and expertise to produce poison gas. ``If these kind of things are going to be cut off it's going to be very difficult for a plant of this kind to operate,'' he said. The 1925 Geneva Protocol under review in Paris bans the use of chemical weapons, but does not outlaw their production. Some 20 nations, by U.S. estimate, either have produced chemical weapons or are capable of manufacturing them. The protocol has no enforcement mechanism. Its effectiveness depends on the self-discipline of the 130 nations that are parties to the pact. To try to stem proliferation, Redman said ``we are prepared to discuss the strongest possible measures'' against countries that export sophisticated technology. The West European governments have responded with some skepticism to the U.S. allegations, however. West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher said Wednesday his government had no evidence proving West German pharmaceutical firm had helped build the plant at Rabta. A spokesman for Genscher said, meanwhile, Bonn had accused Washington for ``additional material'' to back up the allegation. But the Reagan administration has not pulled back. Robert M. Gates, a former CIA deputy director who was named last week as deputy director of the National Security Council, said in a recent speech that the plant was built with the help of ``nearly a dozen nations, East and West.'' He declined to name them. The United States stopped production of chemical weapons in 1969, then resumed 17 years later on the grounds the Soviet Union and other potential adversaries had chemical weapons stocks. Currently, U.S. chemical components and artillery shells to contain them are being produced but stockpiled separately. The Soviet Union acknowledged in 1987 possession of chemical weapons, then claimed to have ceased production. A foreign ministry spokesman said 50,000 tons would be stored, the rest destroyed. Officials of the two countries have held nine sessions in Geneva to plan ways to restrict proliferation.
<irrelevant> Prosecutors dropped an illegal arms case against a retired Israeli army general and 10 other people after the defendants argued the United States wouldn't have frowned on $2 billion in U.S. weapons sales to Iran. An investigation by the U.S. attorney's office found no evidence linking the arms transactions charged in the indictment with the so-called Iran-Contra affair, court papers said. However, the defendants argued they had reason to believe their activities had or would receive U.S. government approval, a contention that gained credence after the Iran-Contra arms scandal came to light. The defendants said they believed their plan to sell fighter planes, missiles, tanks and spare parts to Iran was officially sanctioned by the U.S. government, according to papers filed in U.S. District Court. Prosecutors could not produce witnesses to contradict the defendants' claim so the conspiracy case was dropped Wednesday. Gen. Avraham Bar-Am, who left the Israeli army in 1984 and later served as an arms consultant for Israel, and Samuel Evans, an American lawyer based in London, were among the 11 people and four corporations named in the papers. They were indicted between May and October 1986. Evans also was the lawyer for Adnan Khashoggi, a multibillionaire Saudi arms dealer who was said to have been involved in some of the Iran-Contra weapons deals. The U.S. Customs Service had set up an elaborate ``sting'' using a fraudulent bank account in late 1985, about the time Reagan administration officials were secretly selling arms to Iran and using the proceeds to finance the Contras fighting to overthrow the leftist Nicaraguan government. The defendants charged that Cyrus Hashemi, an Iranian oilman identified as the U.S. government's chief operative in the sting, was at the same time involved in shipping covert arms to Iran for the administration. Prosecutors said that Hashemi would have contradicted the defendants' claim that they had the government's blessing. However, Hashemi died in 1986, and the government could not ``procure the attendance at trial of any (other) such witness,'' court papers said. In September and October 1986, U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani's office was told by the Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency that there were no documents to support allegations that the United States sanctioned the delivery of arms to Iran by the defendants. But it was publicly revealed in November 1986 that members of the National Security Council had secretly engaged in the sale of arms to Iran.
<irrelevant> A helicopter crashed into the sea off southern Finland, and three people were missing, the coast guard reported. The Agusta Bell 206 Jet Ranger crashed Thursday night shortly after taking off from the submarine support ship Skat near Kokar island, about 125 miles west of Helsinki. The ship's crew launched a search in boats, but found only parts of the helicopter. In addition to the pilot, the helicopter was carrying a shipyard worker and a British researcher. The coast guard said there was almost no chance of survivors from the crash in the icy water. The cause of the accident was not known.
<irrelevant> Secretary of State George P. Shultz today urged the leaders of more than 140 countries to foreswear using chemical weapons and to keep them out of the hands of terrorists. Addressing the first session of an international conference on chemical weapons, Shultz proposed the imposition of unspecified penalties by the United Nations to those violating the 1925 Geneva Protocol banning the use of ``one of humanity's most dreaded and dreadful forms of warfare.'' Shultz warned that the threat of terrorists using chemical weapons is ``a real one'' and said some governments linked to terrorism have the ability to produce deadly chemical agents. ``There are no insurmountable technical obstacles that would prevent terrorist groups from using chemical weapons,'' Shultz told the conference delegates. Shultz did not specify any particular country, but it appeared Libya was at least one of his targets when he said, ``Some governments which have been known to sponsor terrorism now have sizable chemical weapons capabilities.'' Libya is among the countries on the State Department's list of nations sponsoring terrorism. Syria is also on the list, and some analysts fear the country also may have embarked on a chemicals weapon program. ``With the inhibitions against employing such weapons now weakened through recent years _ and with targets for conventional terrorist attacks becoming better protected _ terrorist groups could be tempted to shift without warning to use of chemical weapons for dramatic political and media attention,'' he said. Shultz also supported increasing in the U.N. secretary-general's authority to investigate allegations into the use of chemical arms in war, and said nations must find ways to block the transfer of technology. He made no direct reference to Libya, nor did he single out any other nation believed to possess or have the ability to produce chemical weapons. Only the United States and the Soviet Union acknowledge having such stockpiles. U.S. officials maintain chemical weapons are being developed at a plant 60 miles from the Libyan capital. Libya denies it. However, the U.S. secretary of state said chemical weapons have proliferated in recent years. He cited reports of the use of chemical arms in the Middle East, Southeast Asia and Afghanistan. ``We cannot delay. Time is not on our side,'' he said. ``Technology is not stagnant. Ever more lethal and insidious chemical weapons are being developed ... the ability to produce such weapons is rapidly spreading and with it the technology to produce ballistic missiles as delivery vehicles.'' Shultz said it was, ``grimly ironic'' that the threat of chemical weapons has grown just as progress is being made in controlling and reducing nuclear arms. ``A nightmare for all, of course, would be the combination of ballistic missiles, chemical warheads and biological weapons in the hands of governments with histories of the conduct of terrorist violence.'' In opening the five-day conference today, President Francois Mitterrand of France told delegates: ``This conference is not going to be a court of justice. However, you should state unconditionally and unreservedly your condemnation of chemical arms.'' U.N. Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar asked for a minute of silence to honor Emperor Hirohito of Japan, who died today. More than 140 nations were represented _ including 80 by their foreign ministers _ at the meeting at the headquarters of the U.N. Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The conference is aimed at reaffirming the 1925 Geneva Protocol, banning use of chemical arms, and pressing for a broader agreement that would prohibit their use, production and stockpiling. The emnity between the United States and Libya loomed over the conference, as the United States pressed its accusations about Libyan chemical weapons capabilities, trying to persuade industrialized nations the claims are correct. Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze said Friday that the U.S. downing of two Libyan jetfighters ``poisoned'' the atmosphere of the meeting. U.S. officials say two U.S. planes shot down two Libyan planes over the Mediterranean in self-defense Wednesday. The officials also say the issue of a Libyan chemical plant on the verge of production had nothing to do with the air incident. Libya claims its chemical plant, in Rabta 60 miles southwest of Tripoli, is for making pharmaceuticals. Shultz and Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher of West Germany agreed today that U.S. and West German experts would meet next week in Washington to weigh any evidence West German firms are involved in the factory in Rabta. ``We will do everything in our power to prevent German nationals and German companies from taking part in chemical weapons production,'' Genscher said. Some published reports have linked a West German firm to the Libyan plant, but the Bonn government has expressed skepticism. For nearly two decades, negotiators in Geneva have worked without success to draft a new, wider convention to give it some power of enforcement. The meeting in Paris is meant to give a political push to the negotiations. Perez de Cuellar told the delegates, ``The time has come to take concerted political action at a high level.'' Mitterrand said the conference should also examine the question of how to control and verify any future chemical weapons accord. The conference was formally proposed by President Reagan. Mitterrand had said earlier he was looking for such an initiative. French officials stress that the final communique, to be issued Wednesday, is political in nature, and that binding agreements must come from Geneva, where delegates from 40 nations are at work. According to U.S. estimates, about 20 nations have or are capable of producing chemical arms.
</top>
<top>
<num> 92
<title> International Military Equipment Sales
<relevant> The Navy on Tuesday awarded a $459.4 million contract to Texas Instruments Inc., combining in one fixed-price contract its fiscal 1989 order for HARM missiles along with those of the Air Force and West Germany. The Navy, in a brief announcement, said it was buying 2,449 High-Speed Anti-Radiation Missiles, or HARMs, from Texas Instruments this year. That combines an order for 1,319 for itself, 950 for the Air Force and 180 for West Germany, the Navy said. The sale to West Germany, worth $35.2 million, is the first-ever foreign sale of the weapon. The HARM missile is an air-to-ground missile used to attack enemy radars of the sort that guide anti-aircraft guns and surface-to-air missiles. The HARM guidance system is designed to automatically lock on to the enemy radar's emissions. The Navy said Tuesday's contract was awarded to Texas Instruments' Defense Systems and Electronics Group in Dallas and will be administered by its Naval Air Systems Command. ``Delivery of these missiles will begin in December 1990 and will continue through November 1991,'' the Navy said.
<relevant> The Navy on Tuesday awarded a $459.4 million contract to Texas Instruments Inc., combining in one fixed-price contract its fiscal 1989 order for HARM missiles along with that of the Air Force and West Germany. The service, in a brief announcement, said it was buying 2,449 High-Speed Anti-Radiation Missiles, or HARM's, from Texas Instruments this year. That combines an order for 1,319 for itself, another 950 for the Air Force and 180 for West Germany, the Navy said. The sale to West Germany, worth $35.2 million, is the first-ever foreign sale of the weapon. The HARM missile is an air-to-ground missile used to attack enemy radars of the sort that guide anti-aircraft guns and surface-to-air missiles. The HARM guidance system is designed to automatically lock on the enemy radar's emissions. The Navy said Tuesday's contract was awarded to Texas Instruments' Defense Systems and Electronics Group in Dallas and would be administered by its Naval Air Systems Command. ``Delivery of these missiles will begin in December 1990 and will continue through November 1991,'' the Navy said.
<relevant> Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto arrived Saturday for her first official trip abroad and gave assurances that China, long a close ally of her country, will remain a cornerstone of Pakistan's foreign policy. Ms. Bhutto, speaking at a banquet put on by Premier Li Peng, said her visit had special significance in that she was fulfilling a promise made after her election in November to make China her first foreign stop. ``This demonstrates that the democratic government attaches special importance and priority to Pakistan's time-tested relations with China,'' she said. Ms. Bhutto received a boisterous welcome from about 200 Pakistani diplomats, residents and schoolchildren at the airport. She broke with normal procedure, walking away from a waiting limousine to shake hands with the Pakistanis. Many shouted her name and waved banners in English, Arabic and Chinese reading ``Long Live Benazir Bhutto'' and ``Long Live Sino-Pakistan Friendship.'' The Pakistani leader will spend three days in China. In addition to Li, she plans to meet with senior leader Deng Xiaoping and the general secretary of the Communist Party, Zhao Ziyang. The official Xinhua News Agency said Afghanistan will be the main focus of talks, but another topic is expected to be Chinese arms sales to Pakistan. The Muslim Newspaper in Islamabad reported Saturday that Pakistan had reached agreement with China to purchase 75 F-7 jets, a Chinese version of the MiG-21, at a cost of about $225 million. China is second only to the United States in providing military equipment to Pakistan and is now helping Pakistan develop its nuclear industry. Both Pakistan and China have denied persistent reports the nuclear aid has military applications. Ms. Bhutto, in her banquet remarks, recalled how her father, the late Prime Minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, made his first foreign trip to China in 1972. She said her father had sent all four of his children to China for a month in 1972, when she was a student in the United States. She returned to China with Bhutto on his 1976 state visit. Her speech also gave a rundown of Pakistan's foreign policy, which generally has knitted closely with that of China. Pakistan was glad to see prospects of improved relations between China and India following Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's visit to Beijing in December, Ms. Bhutto said. She said her recent talks with the Indian leader also ``helped to remove some of the mistrust that has bedeviled the Pak-India relationship.'' Ms. Bhutto also praised the warming of relations between China and the Soviet Union, to culminate with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's visit to Beijing in May. It will be the first Sino-Soviet summit in 30 years. ``We believe that the reduction of tension and resolution of outstanding issues between the two great neighbors will be conducive to peace and stability in our region,'' she said. China and Pakistan, with common adversaries in India and the Soviet Union, have been very close since Pakistan became one of the first countries to recognize the Communist government in Beijing after it was established in 1949. China had close relations with Ms. Bhutto's predecessor, Mohammed Zia ul-Haq, under whose rule Ms. Bhutto's father was arrested and executed in 1979. But Beijing was quick to support Ms. Bhutto after she was elected to succeed Zia, who died in a suspicious plane crash in August. Before the banquet, Ms. Bhutto was officially greeted by Li at a welcoming ceremony inside the Great Hall of the People. On Sunday, Ms. Bhutto is to hold talks with Li and meet party leader Zhao. She is also to meet Deng Yingchao, the widow of Premier Chou En-lai, her host during her 1972 visit to China. She departs Sunday evening for Shanghai, where she is to meet President Yang Shangkun. She will meet Deng there Monday.
<relevant> The United States will send $20 million worth of military equipment in the first U.S. military aid to Argentina since the 1982 Falklands conflict, the Ministry of Defense said Tuesday. Ministry spokesman Horacio Altamirano said the equipment included spare parts for about 20 helicopters and 200 armored personnel carriers. The deal was signed Tuesday by Gen. Fred Woerner, chief of the U.S. Southern Strategic Command, and Argentina's army chief Gen. Francisco Gassino, Altamirano said. The U.S. Embassy did not return phone calls for comment. The aid is the first since Argentina and Britain clashed in 1982 over the South Atlantic islands that Britain owns and calls the Falklands, and Argentina claims and calls the Malvinas. The United States supported Britain in the conflict. Argentina's military budget has been cut in half to about 2 percent of the gross domestic product since civilian President Raul Alfonsin took office in December 1983, ending a military regime that had been in power for nearly eight years. Officers have complained about not having enough money to draft and train recruits, fly jets or buy the parts needed to keep foreign-made equipment running, including M-113 armored personnel carriers and Bell helicopters. The lack of equipment and the low military budget in general was one of the reasons cited by army rebels for an insurrection last December. Defense Minister Jose Horacio Jaunarena personally requested U.S. military assistance on a trip to Washington last October during which he met with then-Defense Secretary Frank Carlucci. U.S. military assistance to Argentina was sharply restricted beginning in the late 1970s because of human rights violations committed by the military regime trying to eradicate subversion. The juntas bought the guns, planes and ships they wanted from European and Middle East suppliers.
<relevant> The administration, while banning imports of semiautomatic assault weapons pending review of their usage, sees no need for similar review of domestically produced weapons, the White House said today. Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said President Bush is not willing to expand the ban and review the administration announced Tuesday to block import of semiautomatics that are not for sporting use. ``At this point we are not willing to extend that,'' Fitzwater told reporters. Although some of the assault weapons produced and sold in the United States are virtually identical to the imports, the spokesman said no curtailment of their manufacture is currently envisioned. ``We don't see any need for any review or any other changes at all,'' he said. However he did not preclude eventually expanding the review. ``We're saying here's an issue that's come to light. We need to deal with it and we'll see where we go,'' he said. Administration officials describe the ban on imports of AK-47s and other semiautomatic firearms as ``temporary and reversible.'' But they say it was necessary to head off an imminent flood of the assault weapons into the United States. The action Tuesday appeared to be a softening of Bush's oft-stated opposition to gun controls, but Fitzwater said it merely enforces current law that allows imports of guns only if for sporting purposes. Bush, a member of the National Rifle Association, ``shares the public concern'' over the proliferation of semiautomatic weapons, but he is not changing his position against a ban on such guns, Fitzwater said. Vice President Dan Quayle told The Associated Press today that he had received several ``inquiries'' from people who were concerned about the administration action. Quayle declined to elaborate, but he said Bush ``was absolutely right to enforce the existing regulations we have ... I see it as a serious attempt by President Bush to review the situation.'' Bush had asked national drug control director William J. Bennett last week to recommend what should be done about the weapons. Calls for a ban have been prompted by scores of drug-related shootings and the recent killing of five California schoolchildren. The action will affect more than 110,000 weapons with pending applications for import, Bennett said, including AKS-type firearms such as AK-47s, Uzi carbines, FN-FAL and FN-FNC-type weapons as well as Steyr Aug semiautomatic weapons. It does not affect semiautomatic weapons already in this country or those produced domestically such as the AR15, the civilian version of the military's .223-caliber M-16. The decision to suspend imports was made a day after Bennett was sworn in to his new job. Stephen E. Higgins, director of the Treasury Department's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, had raised the issue with Bennett. ``Higgins mentioned to him this spike, this upsurge in import applications, and outlined for Bennett what the legal authorities and options were,'' said Bennett spokesman Don Hamilton. ATF approved the import of 88,000 such weapons during 1986, 1987 and 1988. This year alone, the government has received requests to import many more than that, with 113,732 applications pending, according to Bennett. After several more conversations with Higgins and others, ``his thinking was developing along the lines of, this was a temporary and reversible measure,'' Hamilton said. ``If we keep them out, it's temporary and reversible,'' he said. ``If, on the other hand, you let them in, they're in, and it's irreversible. In the space of several weeks, you could more than double the last three year's imports by doing nothing.'' Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady _ whose department includes ATF _ agreed to the import suspension and ordered it Tuesday. ``ATF has the authority to regulate the importation of weapons into the United States, to make sure they fall into certain categories,'' spokesman Dick Pedersen said. ``We're saying some of these weapons may not fall into some of the prescribed categories, such as hunting.'' Gun control advocates hailed the move, while even the NRA _ which has opposed controls on the weapons _ said it could do some good. The action would ``put a stop to the media hysteria surrounding the semiautomatic version of the AK-47 rifle, and should provide an atmosphere for a reasoned and sensible debate on this issue,'' said Wayne LaPierre, executive director of the NRA Institute for Legislative Action. Before the suspension announcement, NRA President Joe Foss decried the ``panic'' over semiautomatic weapons and blamed a faulty criminal justice system for the current state of affairs in which heavily armed drug dealers operate within minutes of the White House. ``If you think that taking away the guns from those bozos will make any difference, you've got another thing coming,'' Foss said. ``You could outlaw every single gun that there is, and they would still get them.'' Handgun Control spokeswoman Susan Whitmore called the decision a ``first step toward public safety.'' ``It's really significant that there's general recognition of the problem that these combat weapons pose to the safety of not only the nation's law enforcement community but to the citizens all across the country,'' she said. Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, who has introduced legislation that would ban new assault weapons and require registration of those already in circulation, said the import ban is ``a major first step.'' ``But currently, nothing prevents the manufacture of these weapons here in the United States,'' Metzenbaum said. ``It is necessary that we ban the sale of new assault weapons and register the ones already in circulation.'' The move came a day after the California State Assembly passed a ban on 40 types of semiautomatics; the state Senate had passed a similar bill earlier.
<irrelevant> Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev slowly may be winning converts to his policy of glasnost, or openness, but whether the word merits inclusion in a U.S. dictionary remains under debate. The honor likely to be accorded such all-American terms as ``televangelist'' and ``computer virus'' in upcoming Merriam-Webster dictionaries has so far been denied the word describing Gorbachev's reforms. ``It is still most often found in either italics or quotes and to us that means it has not been completely Americanized,'' said James G. Lowe, senior editor at Springfield-based G.C. Merriam Inc. ``When reporters and writers start using it without explaining what it means it will be ready for consideration for the dictionary.'' The term ``computer virus'' came into wide use too late for this year's book, but it is an almost sure bet for inclusion in the next addendum to the company's unabridged dictionary, Lowe said, thanks to a graduate student who this autumn unleashed a ``virus'' that clogged university and military computers and exposed the vulnerability of computer banks to infection. ``Televangelist,'' ``colorization,'' as used to describe the tinting of old black-and-white films, and ``zap,'' when used to describe what happens to a television commercial when a viewer switches to another channel by remote control, are also likely candidates for the unabridged dictionary, he said. Monday was a holiday within a holiday for many parents who had the day off but sent their children back to school. The federal and state New Year's Day holiday was observed by many school systems, but it was back to the books for students in public schools here. ``I don't want to go,'' said Joe Alexander, 14, as he boarded a school bus bound for Attucks Junior High. ``It's not fair for us to go on a federal holiday.'' A lot of students _ and parents _ apparently had the same opinion, as the absentee rate shot up to near 40 percent at some schools. Overall, attendance was termed ``fair'' by officials. Frank Tout, principal at Howe High School, estimated that between 60 percent and 65 percent of the school's 1,609 students were in class. Although Christmas vacation started earlier at city schools than at other school systems, another day off would have been nice, most students agreed. ``I don't like it,'' said Jesse Harper, 12, another Attucks student. ``My dad is staying home today and I wanted to stay with him.'' But some were more than ready to return. ``I wanted to go to school today,'' said Missy Frazier, 14, an eighth-grader at Attucks. ``I get bored at home.''
<irrelevant> A dealer accused of trading in thousands of stolen Nazi-era documents from a U.S.-run archives handed over nearly 800 of the records Monday, a Justice Ministry spokeswoman said. Andre Huesken, a Hamburg dealer in military memorabilia, turned the material over to West Berlin court officials, the justice spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity. She said she did not know details of the contents of the 780 documents that were returned. Huesken is charged with trading in goods stolen from the U.S.-run Nazi Document Center in West Berlin. He has been on trial since Dec. 5 with three other defendants. Prosecutors accuse a second defendant, Alfred Darko, of stealing at least 4,000 documents from 1984-87 and selling them to another defendant, West Berlin antiques dealer Henry Berger. Darko, from the Ivory Coast, is a former employee of the documents center and has admitted receiving more than $8,000 for supplying the papers. Berger says he did not realize the documents were stolen. He says he passed them on to military memorabilia trader Herbert Borrmann of West Berlin and collected a fee as a go-between. Borrmann is accused of providing the stolen documents, in turn, to Huesken for sale to buyers in foreign countries, including Britain and the United States. The Nazi Document Center houses about 30 million files from the Third Reich era, including Nazi Party membership lists, marriage applications of prominent Nazis, and military information. The center, which is in the U.S. sector of the city, has been operated and maintained by the U.S. government since 1953. Used mainly by scholars and government agencies, it contains the world's largest collection of Nazi records. No Americans have been charged in the case.
<irrelevant> From their clifftop campus in Hoboken, N.J., the 593 foreign students at Stevens Institute of Technology have a grandstand view of the New York City skyline and the battery of skyscrapers around Wall Street. To some, it's like a vision of the Promised Land _ and many are tempted to stay in this country to start careers. Currently, 356,200 students from other countries attend more than 2,000 colleges and universities across America, and as many as one-fifth of them do in fact stay on. ``Our best estimate is that in recent years only 80 to 85 percent of foreign students in the United States returned home,'' says Jack Reichard, vice president of the Washington-based National Association for Foreign Student Affairs. Moreover, 50-60 percent of foreign students studying science and engineering _ a vital area for their countries as well as the United States _ decide to stay, according to a study by the National Science Foundation. About 40 percent of non-American Ph.D. recipients in science and engineering seek jobs in this country, and about 40 percent of American university science and engineering faculty members under the age of 35 are now foreign nationals, according to the National Academy of Sciences. Whether these young intellectuals of the world should stay on to make their careers in America or return home is a question in growing contention. Their individual decisions to stay or to go home could have a considerable impact on world affairs. Leon Febres Cordero, who earned a Bachelor of Engineering degree at Stevens in 1953, completed a four-year term as president of Ecuador last August. Niklos Nemeth, an economist with postgraduate training at Harvard University, was named in November to be prime minister of Hungary. Benazir Bhutto, who has a BA from Radcliffe College, became prime minister of Pakistan, elected in December as the first woman ever to head a Moslem government. In dozens of other nations of every political persuasion, graduates of American universities have occupied positions of influence and power in politics, industry and other fields. Foreign students who decided to stay on in the United States have been no less successful. Shanghai-born An Wang, who was sent to study physics at Harvard by President Chiang Kai-shek of Nationalist China, stayed on in the United States to found Wang Laboratories, a major scientific company, and make a fortune estimated by Forbes magazine at $365 million. The average foreign university student attends courses for about 3.5 years, Reichard said in a telephone interview. So it may be estimated, with about 350,000 foreign students in the country, that approximately 100,000 new university-level students enter the country each year. According to U.S immigration figures, about 20,000 of these foreign youths, among the world's best and brightest, trade in their student visas for immigration cards. The foreign students come from 186 countries and territories. Two thirds of them are from developing nations, where in many cases a depressing paradox awaits them on their return home: there is a desperate need for their knowledge, but jobs are scarce and poorly paid even at the advanced level they have achieved. So the temptation to remain in the United States is strong. Making it even stronger is the encouragement of some American business and academic leaders, acutely aware of a shortage of American-born science students in particular. According to the Council on Competitiveness, the United States could face a shortfall of 500,000 American-born scientists and engineers by the year 2010 due to retirements and the declining number of American students choosing careers in these fields. The Council, composed of 151 chief executives of industry, labor and higher education, also noted in a report last July that 1,300 to 1,800 engineering positions are vacant even now at American universities. ``How can we replenish these faculty positions?'' asks Stevens President Harold J. Raveche. ``It takes 10,000 high school students expressing an interest in a science or engineering major to assure us of 20 doctorates.'' ``We should talk about our education deficit rather than about our budget deficit,'' says Kenneth Wilson, 1982 winner of the Nobel physics prize. ``We need math and science teachers,'' he said during a forum on U.S. competitiveness at Stevens. The academic gap is being filled by an increasing number of professors from other countries, particularly India, Japan and other Asian nations. Sixty percent of all foreign students in the United States are in engineering, mathematics, computer sciences, physical and life sciences or management-related fields, according to the New York-based Institute of International Education, which administers international scholarship programs and places thousands of foreign students in U.S. schools. ``An important policy need is to encourage developing-country nationals to return home. Their U.S. education should represent a brain gain, not a drain,'' says Institute chairman Charles H. Percy, a former Illinois senator. Dissenting, Peter Sprague, chairman of the board of National Semiconductor Corp., notes that ``the American university system is unmatched in the world, and the United States is a mecca for foreign students. ``About half our science and engineering graduate students are foreigners. We should give them green cards,'' admitting them as immigrants, said Sprague at the Stevens forum. He said he spoke for the high technology industries of California's Silicon Valley. While U.S. universities may set a high standard, American primary and secondary education is often inadequate, said Pulitzer Prize-winning author David Halberstam at the Stevens forum. ``Technical universities like Stevens are at the cutting edge of economic development,'' he said, ``but the Japanese are killing us in ninth grade mathematics.''
<irrelevant> Here is a brief chronology of events related to the Iran-Contra affair. MARCH 7 _ Cable News Network correspondent Jeremy Levin is kidnapped in Beirut. Levin, freed 11 months later, is first of 15 American hostages, of whom eight remain captive. Five were either freed or escaped. University librarian Peter Kilburn and CIA Beirut station chief William Buckley were murdered. SUMMER _ Iranian purchasing agents put out call for weapons, including TOW anti-tank missiles. By November, Iranians are suggesting link between weapons sales and release of U.S. hostages. JULY _ Israeli official suggests dealing with Iran to U.S. national security adviser Robert McFarlane and says transfer of arms could lead to release of hostages. McFarlane takes the message to President Reagan. AUG. 30 _ First planeload of U.S.-made weapons is sent from Israel to Tehran. McFarlane and Donald Regan, White House chief of staff, later disagree on whether Reagan approved shipment. Reagan says he does not remember. SEPT. 14 _ Second shipment is sent to Tehran. SEPT. 15 _ American hostage Rev. Benjamin Weir is released. DEC. 4 _ McFarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by Rear Adm. John Poindexter. DEC. 5 _ Reagan signs finding describing operation with Iran as strictly an arms-for-hostages deal. Poindexter later testifies that on Nov. 21, 1986, he tore up only copy of finding that bore the president's signature. DEC. 5 _ In discussions with Israeli officials about Iran arms shipments, national security aide Lt Col. Oliver North mentions plans to use Iranian weapons sales to generate profits that could be used to support Nicaragua's U.S.-backed Contras. JAN. 17 _ Reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing CIA participation in the sales and ordering process be kept secret from Congress. FEBRUARY _ First direct shipment of arms from Pentagon stocks is sent to Iran. APRIL _ North writes memo outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from Iran arms sales for Contra aid. MAY 25 _ North and McFarlane fly to Tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. Negotiations break down and they return to Washington. SEPT. 26 _ Iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into Swiss bank account. More spare parts and TOWs are prepared for shipment. OCT. 5 _ North flies to West Germany for meeting with Iranian contact who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 TOWs. NOV. 2 _ American hostage David Jacobsen, held since June 1985, is freed. NOV. 4 _ A pro-Syrian news magazine in Beirut breaks news that McFarlane had flown to Iran to meet and negotiate with officials there. NOV. 13 _ White House admits selling arms to Iran. Reagan repeats administration has not bargained with terrorists or sold arms for hostages. NOV. 21 _ CIA director William Casey briefs Senate Intelligence Committee on arms deal, but makes no mention of diversion of funds. North and his secretary, Fawn Hall, shred, alter and remove documents relevant to arms deal. NOV. 25 _ Reagan announces North has been fired and Poindexter has resigned. Attorney General Edwin Meese discloses $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to Contras. NOV. 26 _ Reagan sets up Tower Commission to review role of National Security Council. DEC. 1-3 _ Senate Intelligence Committee begins inquiry into revelations by questioning McFarlane. Committee also questions North and Poindexter, who both invoke the Fifth Amendment. DEC. 19 _ Lawrence E. Walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. Both houses of Congress select investigating committees. FEB. 18 _ Tower Commission issues its report rebuking Reagan for failing to control national security staff. MARCH 4 _ Reagan acknowledges in televised speech his Iranian initiative deteriorated into arms-for-hostages deal. ``It was a mistake.'' MAY 5 _ Congressional Iran-Contra hearings begin with testimony from retired Air Force Gen. Richard Secord, who describes how $3.5 million in proceeds from arms sales to Iran were diverted to Contras. MAY 6 _ Casey dies. MAY 11 _ McFarlane begins four days of testimony, during which he says Reagan instructed staff in 1984 to find ways around congressional ban on U.S. military aid to Contras. McFarlane denies he, North and Poindexter concocted cover story in early November 1986 to cover up administration's arms sales to Iran. JULY 7 _ North begins six days on stand during which he says he had authorization from his superiors for diverting Iran arms sale money to the Contras, Casey knew of diversion all along, and North always assumed Reagan knew about it. But he says he never discussed plan with the president or received written presidential authorization for it. JULY 15 _ Poindexter testifies over five days he never told Reagan Iran arms sale proceeds were being diverted to Contras. Poindexter says Reagan, in writing, authorized straight arms-for-hostages swap in December 1985 but Poindexter tore up the document in November 1986 as the affair unraveled. AUG. 6 _ Hearings conclude. NOV. 18 _ Final report of House and Senate investigating committees concludes Reagan bears ultimate responsibility for Iran-Contra affair because he allowed ``cabal of the zealots'' to seize control of policy and bypass the law. Committee Republicans dissented sharply, saying mistakes amounted only to errors of judgment. MARCH 16 _ North, Poindexter and two others are indicted on charges they conspired to divert Iranian arms sales profits to the Contras. ``I can assure you I will never give up, we will win, I just cannot tell you how soon,'' North says. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell. MARCH 17 _ Marlin Fitzwater, President Reagan's spokesman, says there has been no discussion of a pardon for North. MARCH 18 _ North announces he will retire from the Marine Corps May 1 because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government.'' MARCH 25 _ Reagan refers to ``the so-called scandal'' and says he still considers North ``my hero.'' JUNE 6 _ Gesell, who authorized turning over 300,000 documents to the defense, warns that the danger of exposing the nation's most sensitive secrets poses a serious obstacle to pressing the conspiracy charges against the four defendants. JUNE 8 _ Gesell orders separate trials for the four defendants; Walsh, the next day, chooses North for the leadoff trial. JULY 8 _ Gesell sets Sept. 20 for the start of North's trial. AUG. 5 _ Gesell reschedules trial for after the election to give lawyers time to sort through hundreds of thousands of classified documents and orders North to file a specific notice of the government secrets he wants to disclose. SEPT. 30 _ Federal appeals court rebuffs attempt by North and two other defendants to stop the prosecution. NOV. 7 _ One of 16 criminal counts, fabricating a document, is dismissed. NOV. 21 _ Gesell warns if North stands trial, the court will have little control over the testimony of witnesses ``acquainted with high security matters.'' He appeals to Reagan to decide whether North is to be pardoned. NOV. 29 _ Gesell refuses to dismiss two of the central charges against North, conspiracy to defraud the government and theft of government property. He dismisses a third, wire fraud. DEC. 1 _ President Reagan rules out a North pardon but says ``duty requires'' his administration to block release of secret documents North wants for his trial. DEC. 1 _ Amiram Nir, the Israeli go-between in secret U.S. arms deals with Iran, died Nov. 30 in a plane crash in Mexico while traveling under an assumed name, Mexican officials say. DEC. 12 _ Gesell tells North he can't use 3,500 secret documents; says he can't use more than 300, roughly the same number planned to be introduced as evidence by the prosecution. The decision removes a major obstacle to the trial going forward. DEC. 16 _ John W. Keker, a former Marine who was _ like North _ wounded in combat in Vietnam, is named to be lead prosecutor in North's trial. DEC. 21 _ Gesell sets Jan. 31 for the start of the trial. DEC. 30 _ North subpoenaes President Reagan and President-elect Bush as defense witnesses. The Justice Department says the summons ``raises significant legal and constitutional questions.'' JAN. 5 _ Prosecutors ask Gesell to dismiss conspiracy and theft charges, citing North's ``insistence on introducing classified information in his defense'' and the Reagan administration's refusal to release material the judge ruled North would need at trial. Gesell sets hearing for Jan. 9. Reagan says action satisfies concern about national security. Asked about a pardon, he says ``we're waiting for the judicial process to go forward.''
<irrelevant> Two hundred works of avant-garde artist Kazimir Malevich, long banned because they didn't meet the official idea of art, were displayed Friday in Moscow's first show in decades devoted to the artist. ``Today is our holiday,'' Yuri Korolyev, director of Moscow's Tretyakov Gallery told a news conference before the opening the show at the museum's exhibition hall along the Moscow River. Malevich's avant-garde style clashed with the officially approved socialist realism, which Soviet officials counted on to inspire people to support their new political and economic system. Museum officials said many of the paintings and graphics never had been displayed in the Soviet Union. In recent years, several paintings have been shown in exhibits of avant-garde art of the 1920s and 1930s permitted in the freer atmosphere under President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. Included in the exhibit put together by several Soviet museums and the Stedelijk Museum of Amsterdam is Malevich's ``Black Suprematist Square,'' his most famous work painted in 1914-15, which is in the Tretyakov collection. The painting of a large black square surrounded by a white border showed many cracks, and museum officials said it was too delicate to be moved from Moscow. Like almost 90 percent of the works, it has been presevered for decades by Soviet curators who could not display it. Malevich's theory of suprematism says that a painted shape is not devired in any way from the outside world, but is its own, unique creation. There are a variety of suprematist works of geometric shapes and various colors that are placed on the canvas in no clear relation to each other. No effort is made to give them a three-dimensional effect. Most of the canvases are white with geometric designs in basic shades of black, red, yellow, green or purple. The black square is considered the ultimate suprematist work because it has absorbed all previous painted images. The Tretyakov Gallery organized an exhibit of Malevich's works in 1929, but gallery officials said that was the last one devoted to Malevich until Friday. The exhibit includes works that embrace three decades and a wide variety of styles, from his early impressionist paintings, cubist works, a series of suprematist paintings following the original black square, and portraits painted from 1927 until his death in 1935. Even though the works included in the exhibit are 60 years old or older, Korolyev predicted they would ``play a big role in the continuation of Soviet art.'' Avant-garde artists of the 1920s were part of a ``great experiment'' and carried with them the ``great culture of the past'' which contemporary Soviet artists will be able to draw upon, he said.. Malevich was born in 1878 in Kiev to Polish parents. Wim Beeren, director of the Stedelijk Museum, said he knew two other Soviet masters of that period, Vasily Kandinsky and Marc Chagall, but did not get along with either. He taught for two years at an art school founded in Vitebsk, Byelorussia, founded by Chagall, but was forced to leave because of dislike for his teaching system. An exhibition of Chagall's paintings was held in the Soviet Union in 1987, and several remain on display at the Tretyakov Gallery. Museum officials said the exhibition of Malevich's works will be followed by a Kandinsky exhibit. Stanislav Ivanitsky, director of the Tretyakov's Soviet Painting Department, said that while the Soviet Union retains the majority of Malevich's work, some of the most important paintings are outside the country. Faced with indifference to his suprematist works in the Soviet Union, he took an exhibit of about 30 paintings to Berlin and Warsaw in 1927, and left them there. Beeren said seven smaller works disappeared during the years of Nazi rule, but that his museum acquired the rest in 1958. It is those paintings his museum contributed to the exhibit. The Soviet Culture Ministry sold two of Malevich's suprematist works to private collectors in the West in the 1970s. Ivanitsky said museum officials still were upset about the sale. Malevich changed his style after returning from Berlin and began painting colorful portraits of peasants, workers and sportsmen, many of them without faces. He never offered an explanation for changing his style, and the question still is debated by art experts. The exhibit was organized by the Stedelijk Museum and Soviet art officials beginning in January 1988, and was shown in Leningrad before moving to Moscow.
</top>
<top>
<num> 93
<title> What Backing Does the National Rifle Association
<relevant> A gunman who killed five elementary school pupils and wounded 30 in California before killing himself with a Soviet-designed assault rifle has rekindled the issue of gun control. ``We never believed private citizens ought to have weapons of war,'' said Barbara Lautman, spokeswoman for Handgun Control, the anti-gun lobby in Washington, D.C. ``Why would someone need an assault weapon? The average sportsman or hunter does not need a weapon capable of firing 100 rounds a minute. It defies logic,'' she said Wednesday in a telephone interview. But pro-gun forces defended the right of citizens to own guns, saying that more judicious prosecution of the gunman on previous arrests would have put him behind bars and averted the bloodbath. ``It's a case study of the failure of the criminal justice system that this man was on the streets,'' said David Conover, a lobbyist with the National Rifle Association. ``We continue to oppose restrictive gun control measures.'' ``Gun control laws in general don't work,'' said Craig Markva of Gun Owners of America, a lobbying group in Washington, D.C. ``Everybody will be calling for mandatory background checks. (But) he would have slipped through the cracks even if he had a background check.'' Patrick Edward Purdy, wearing a military flak jacket and earplugs, killed himself after firing up to 110 rounds from a bayonet-equipped, semi-automatic AK-47 assault rifle at youngsters on recess Tuesday at Cleveland Elementary School in Stockton. He also had two handguns. Purdy, 26, bought the rifle, which he inscribed with the words ``freedom'' and ``victory,'' for $147 in August in Sandy, Ore. He had at least four prior arrests in California, none of which resulted in a felony conviction. Under federal law, no felon can legally buy a gun. Purdy pleaded guilty in 1983 to possessing martial arts weapons, which were wooden bars connected with chains, according to Al Albergate in the Los Angeles County district attorney's office. He was jailed for five days. Purdy also was charged with possession of marijuana, receiving stolen property and prostitution, but police said charges either were dropped or they did not know the disposition of the case. Stockton police also said Purdy was charged with robbery and the manufacture or sale of an illegal weapon, but prosecutors in Los Angeles were not aware of the charges or their outcome. ``This is a person who should never be able to buy a weapon. It's too late for the children who are dead and dying,'' said Gerald Arenberg of the National Association of Chiefs of Police. A referedum to ban handguns will apparently be on the April 4 ballot in Winnetka, Ill., where an emotionally disturbed babysitter, Laurie Dann, 30, went on a rampage May 20 at the Hubbard Woods Elementary School. She killed an 8-year-old boy and wounded five other children before killing herself. She had three handguns she bought at a local shop. ``We've got to stop this,'' said Christine Munroe, a parent who led a petition drive to have handguns banned. ``I've always been against handguns. Their only purpose is to kill another person. I don't want anybody threatening my children.'' No gun control bans were proposed in Greenwood, S.C., where James Wilson, a 19-year-old with psychiatric problems, killed two students and wounded seven pupils and two teachers. Wilson used a .22 caliber revolver he took from his grandmother. The California shootings revived anguish among school officials. ``People who have emotional problems and want to take revenge on society are picking on our most vulnerable point, our children,'' said school superintendent Robert Watson of Greenwood. ``Small children are concentrated in groups. They don't run very fast. They can't get away. Principals and teachers aren't much of a match for someone with a gun.''
<relevant> Calls for a ban on private ownership of semiautomatic military weapons in California have risen strikingly since one was used in Stockton in a schoolyard attack that killed five children. The state attorney general and several lawmakers hope to pass legislation while Californians are still stunned by the killings and the wounding of 29 other children and a teacher last week by a man firing an AK-47 assault rifle. ``These kinds of weapons are available to anyone who wants to buy them,'' said Attorney General John Van de Kamp. ``All one needs is a warm smile and cold cash. This is madness and this has to stop. We have to ban these weapons from going in the streets of our city and state.'' Senate leader David Roberti urged Californians to ``write, talk, call on talk radio, call their legislators, demand, scream, pressure, intimidate'' in favor of a ban. At the request of San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos, the U.S. Conference of Mayors may take up a resolution calling for a ban on paramilitary weapons such as the Soviet-designed AK-47. Agnos himself was wounded by a gunman in one of San Francisco's infamous Zebra attacks 15 years ago. The group agreed to have a subcommittee consider the resolution in February, said Agnos' press secretary, Eileen Maloney. The resolution would only be advisory in nature. ``If urban mayors and police chiefs across the country unite behind a grass-roots demand that sale of assault weapons be halted, I am convinced we can make our voices heard in the nation's statehouses and the halls of Congress,'' Agnos said. The efforts are being met with vigorous opposition by staunch pro-gun advocates such as H.L. Richardson, a national director of the National Rifle Association and founder of Gun Owners of California. ``The real question is how a nut like that with his background can be walking around on the street. Why don't we go after the criminal for a change?'' Richardson said of the Stockton gunman, drifter Patrick Purdy, who killed himself after the assault on the schoolyard. Purdy had both a criminal record and a history of mental problems. He bought the AK-47 at a gun shop in Sandy, Ore., in August. All he had to do was fill out a form and pay for it. No waiting period was required. Purdy could have bought the rifle in California as well. Under the law, law, anyone 18 years old or older with a driver's license can purchase a rifle. There is no waiting period and nothing preventing felons or those with a history of mental problems from buying rifles. Richardson said he owns a semiautomatic weapon. ``I use it for hunting turkey in Texas,'' he said. ``It is also a very good varmint firearm. Very accurate.'' Gov. George Deukmejian, asked if he would support a ban on the weapons if passed by the Legislature, said he would first ``want to review the whole issue very carefully.'' ``But I, just for the life of me, cannot see why anybody who is going to use a gun just for sporting purposes would want or need to have a military assault type weapon,'' he added. Deukmejian said he would support a requirement that rifle and shotgun buyers wait 15 days for a background check before obtaining one of the weapons. The state currently has such a delay on the sale of handguns. ``I don't think that anybody who has got a known record in terms of criminal activity or somebody who has had mental problems _ I don't have any problem with preventing those individuals from getting possession of any gun,'' Deukmejian said. The attorney general's proposed legislation will offer a definition of a semiautomatic assault weapon and specify some brands, all of which would be banned, said Dick Iglehart, Alameda County's chief assistant district attorney and a member of a task force created by Van de Kamp to address the problem. But Assembly Speaker Willie Brown said he was ``not terribly optimistic'' that lawmakers will do anything about gun control. ``Every day that we move away from the Stockton-type incident, the legislative will to do something in that area will be reduced,'' Brown said.
<relevant> A couple inspired by a mayoral candidate's offer to buy assault rifles went out and bought 13 of them, then turned them in to be resold to the politician at a loss, officials said. In nearby Compton, the city council voted to ban the powerful semiautomatic weapons outright. ``We're happy to have them off the streets,'' said Sgt. Mike Miskowiec, at the Los Angeles Police Department's southwest division, where a man and woman brought in 13 AK-47 assault rifles Thursday evening. ``They went out and purchased 13 of these guns and brought them down to us,'' he said. Los Angeles Councilman Nate Holden, who is running for mayor, announced Tuesday that he would buy semiautomatic assault rifles for up to $300, using $50,000 from a political action committee fund. Counting the 13 brought in by the unidentified couple, and seven more bought and brought in by a real estate agency, the number of weapons turned in stood at 36 Thursday. The Compton vote and Holden's offer in Los Angeles came in the wake of the Jan. 17 massacre at a Stockton schoolyard in which drifter Patrick Edward Purdy opened fire on students with an AK-47. He killed five children and wounded 29 others and one teacher before taking his own life. In Compton, the ban on the sale or possession of AK-47s and other semiautomatic weapons was passed by the City Council on Tuesday. It is scheduled to take effect Feb. 19. ``It was time for somebody to take the first step,'' said Councilman Maxcy Filer, who wrote the ordinance. ``What we're trying to do is get guns off the streets and out of the hands of criminals.'' Some Compton officials have expressed concern the ordinance won't survive a constitutional challenge, however, and the National Rifle Association's office in Washington, D.C., has vowed to fight it. Compton, a city of 96,000 located 12 miles south of downtown Los Angeles, has one of the highest murder rates in the area. It recorded 80 killings in 1987, one for every 1,200 residents, according to FBI statistics. Holden rejected criticism that his effort is a publicity stunt for his campaign to unseat four-term Mayor Tom Bradley in the April election. Miskowiec refused to name the couple who brought in the 13 guns and said he didn't know why they made the purchase. New AK-47s generally range in price from about $300 to $1,500 for a customized version, according to gun dealers. Among the AK-47s turned in Thursday were seven bought by a San Fernando Valley real estate office for more than $2,500. ``We just decided to go ahead and get these things off the street,'' said Jeffrey Fox, an office employee. He called it a symbolic action. One woman had an AK-47 stolen out of her car Thursday when she stopped at a gas station on the way to turn it in, Miskowiec said.
<relevant> The District of Columbia City Council, trying to stem the city's rising homicide rate, on Monday proposed making handgun manufacturers and sellers liable for injuries and deaths caused by those weapons. Sponsors of the legislation said it will be the first of its kind in the nation. ``The purpose of this legislation is not just to make gun manufacturers pay, to the limited extent that money can compensate, for the suffering that their products cause,'' said Council Chairman David Clarke, the bill's original sponsor. ``This legislation is designed to force gun manufacturers to consider carefully the purposes for which handguns are manufactured.'' The plan would hold handgun manufacturers, importers and dealers liable for damage caused by handguns, in the same manner some states hold tavern owners or party hosts liable for injuries caused by drunken drivers. The bill is supported by 12 of the 13 council members in a city whose officials are worried about a rising murder rate. January is already the bloodiest month in city history, with 49 killings through Monday. That grim trend was established in 1988 when 372 persons were killed in the nation's capital, the highest yearly total ever. Police blame up to 60 percent of the killings on drug-related violence. Clarke said he expects stiff opposition from the National Rifle Association, but he predicted that the NRA and other pro-gun groups will try to block the measure in the House of Representatives, which reviews about legislation from the council. ``This is a very stupid idea, another in a series of attempts by the D.C. Council to divert attention from the city's abysmal record in fighting crime,'' said NRA Assistant General Counsel Richard Gardiner. ``It's very clear that their intent...is to outlaw private handgun ownership.'' Gardiner promised to fight the matter before the city council, and said it is likely his organization will continue its battle in Congress. The district already has a complete ban on handgun purchases, and prohibits registration of any weapon not purchased before 1976.
<relevant> Barbara Bush said Friday that guns scare her and she doesn't own one because ``I'm too afraid I'd shoot the wrong person.'' She said military assault rifles like the one used in a California rampage that left five children dead should be outlawed. In an interview with The Associated Press, the first lady said she did not want to discuss the ``politics and policies'' surrounding handgun ownership. Her husband, President Bush, opposes new federal handgun controls and is a lifetime member of the National Rifle Association. ``I myself do not own a gun,'' she said, urging an interviewer to talk with her husband about his position on handguns. ``I choose not to get into that. I am afraid of them (guns). I'm too afraid I'd shoot the wrong person.'' Nancy Reagan, before moving to Washington eight years ago, revealed she had owned ``a tiny little gun'' that she kept by her bed for protection while husband was away. In her first White House interview in 1981, Mrs. Reagan said she had gotten rid of the weapon. Marking the end of her second week in the White House, Mrs. Bush spent part of Friday afternoon giving her first interviews since her husband became president. ``I feel at home here,'' she said, sitting on a couch, bathed in light from an arched window behind her. In a town torn by debate over a 51 percent pay increase for members of Congress, Mrs. Bush was asked if she had been able to live on her husband's salary when he was a House member from Houston in the 1960s. ``No,'' she replied, saying that they had relied on money he earned as an oilman in Texas. ``Could we have lived on it? We probably could have,'' she said. However, she said, they would have had a very different lifestyle and would not have been able to maintain two homes or send their children to private schools. Asked if her husband had changed in any way since becoming president, she replied, ``I don't see a difference with him.'' Pointing to several people in the room, she said, ``I see a difference in you and you and you. Not me. I mean it's just different when you're president. Everybody treats you differently when you're president.'' Joking about her husband's former status as vice president, Mrs. Bush said, ``I spend half my life saying, `Could you please get the vice president on the phone?' and the operator says, `Do you really want Dan Quayle' or `Don't you know Dan Quayle's in Venezuela.''' More seriously, she said, one big difference for Bush is that ``everything you say becomes major, and it is major. He is the president of the United States.'' And yet, she said of her husband: ``I think he's exactly the same.'' She said many people who used to kid with her husband had stopped doing that briefly but ``after awhile they all became normal again. It just took a little while. ... ``I call him Mr. President sometimes _ when I'm needling him ... to tease him, `Yes, Mr. President.''' The first lady was asked whether she favored enactment of laws banning sale to the public of military assault guns. Measures to outlaw the manufacture, sale or possession of a variety of rifles are pending in Congress and dozens of states. It was a Chinese AK-47 assault rifle that a gunman used in the rampage in which five children were killed and 29 others, as well as a teacher, were wounded in Stockton, Calif. last month. Mrs. Bush said she thought such weapons already were outlawed. ``They should be, absolutely,'' she said. While refusing to discuss her position on handguns, Mrs. Bush said that she does not like to go hunting, as does her husband, an avid outdoorsman. ``I went hunting with George once,'' Mrs. Bush recalled. ``He told me to follow the bird, and I followed the bird and his head came right through that little circle (the rifle scope). I put down the gun and said, `That's it. I'm not going to do that again.''' Earlier Friday, Mrs. Bush visited the United Community Ministries Inc. in the Washington suburb of Alexandria and praised the center's staff of volunteers. ``It reinforces my belief that we have got to help the working poor,'' she told reporters during her 40-minute visit. The first lady helped carry from the trunk of her limousine seven plastic bags full of clothes and toys that she and members of the White House staff donated. The center is a private, non-profit organization whose programs include a thrift shop, food pantry, medical clinics, day care, counseling and financial assistance. Mrs. Bush posed for photographers with four children from the facility's day care center. They included 4-year-old Amber Daniels, who handed Mrs. Bush a ``mock voting tally'' from the preschool class, showing President Bush with a clear margin over Democrat Michael Dukakis. ``That just makes me feel wonderful,'' the first lady said.
<irrelevant> Federal regulators rescued a post-Depression record 217 savings institutions in 1988, leaving Congress and President-elect Bush to figure out the best way to pay the $38 billion bill. Theoretically, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, which regulates the S&amp;L industry, expects enough income over the next 30 years _ $45 billion to $50 billion _ to cover the cost. But analysts and many members of Congress say regulators have run up such a huge bill that turning to the taxpayer is inevitable. ``We still don't know the magnitude of the S&amp;L crisis,'' Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas said Sunday. ``We're not even certain what the regulators have been doing the past week, running up a tab of some $40 billion.'' Even with a last-minute spending spree of nearly $6 billion to rescue 22 institutions in the final 48 hours of 1988, regulators still have about 350 more insolvency cases to handle. And, as of last Sept. 30, another 150 savings institutions were sliding toward insolvency with capital levels below 1.5 percent. Estimates of the total cost of paying for the mess run as high as $112 billion, a figure reported last month by the General Accounting Office, Congress' auditing agency. Treasury Department officials are considering a variety of plans for the incoming administration. Most attempt to spread out the burden over time and keep as much as possible from adding to the federal budget deficit. But Dole, in an interview on ABC-TV's ``This Week With David Brinkley,'' said, ``Somebody's going to have to pay. ... We can't hide it by putting it off budget or smoke and mirrors.'' This year's failure and rescue total _ 217 of the 3,100 S&amp;Ls operating at the start of the year _ is more than quadruple last year's total of 48. It is the highest total since a record 277 failures and rescues in the Depression year of 1938. According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures the nation's 13,500 commercial banks, 221 banks failed or required government assistance. That is also a post-Depression record, topping the previous record of 203 in 1987. Both the FDIC and the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. draw their funds from an assessment on member institutions. But the FDIC depends on the much-larger banking industry, which as a whole is in much better shape, and enters 1989 in relatively good shape with more than $15 billion in reserves. FSLIC, however, is technically insolvent. So, regulators have been patching together rescue deals with as little cash as possible. Most of the aid takes the form of various commitments secured by revenue that regulators don't have now and in some case won't have for as long as 30 years. Moreover, the revenue projections depend on charging S&amp;Ls a special assessment, originally intended to be phased out in a few years, over the next three decades. Industry officials say that would drive even more S&amp;Ls into the red. The biggest rescue on the last day of 1988 was for the Beverly Hills Savings and Loan Association, a giant California institution whose financial problems had plagued regulators for years. The package called for the government to provide $983 million in assistance in the sale of Beverly Hills to Michigan National Corp., a bank holding company in Farmington Hills, Mich., that is putting $52 million into the deal. Also on Saturday, the bank board pledged: _$243.3 million in aid to Home Federal Savings and Loan, a San Diego S&amp;L putting up $25 million to acquire three institutions in the San Francisco area. They are: Columbus Savings and Loan, San Rafael; Cal America Savings and Loan, Walnut Creek, and First Security, Pleasant Hill. _$151.1 million in aid to California Savings and Loan of Los Angeles, which agreed to put up $20.4 million into the insolvent Broward Federal Savings and Loan of Sunrise, Fla. _$29.9 million in aid to First Network Savings Bank of Los Angeles, which agreed to pay $1.25 million for the insolvent Tahoe Savings and Loan of South Lake Tahoe. _$8 million to Home Federal Savings and Loan of Sioux Falls, S.D., which is purchasing United Federal Savings and Loan of Aberdeen, S.D.
<irrelevant> The 101st Congress convened today with leaders of the Democratic-controlled chambers pledging cooperation with a George Bush White House, but with tensions already mounting within the Capitol over a proposed hefty pay raise for lawmakers. President-elect Bush, acting in his role as vice president, gaveled the Senate into session and then immediately administered the oath of office to the new and re-elected senators in groups of four. The Senate chamber was outfitted with new gold curtains behind the presiding officer's chair and new carpet throughout. There were new benches upholstered in bright scarlet for staff members. ``It's all for television,'' said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., showing off the accommodations to constituents. The galleries were packed with spectators, including Lady Byrd Johnson, widow of the late president and mother-in-law of Virginia's new Democratic Sen. Chuck Robb. In the House, the chamber was packed by members, their families and friends as Texas Democrat Jim Wright was re-elected speaker in a party-line vote of 253-170 with two members voting ``present,'' over Republican leader Bob Michel of Illinois. The speaker entered the chamber to a standing ovation before leading the mass swearing-in ceremony. Democrats hold strong majorities in both chambers, 55-45 in the Senate and 259-174 in the House. Today, there was talk of cooperation with Bush from leaders of both parties. ``By working together, we can help our new president fulfill his promise of `a kinder, gentler America','' Wright said in his statement accepting re-election. ``We're very optimistic that we're going to be able to work with President-elect) Bush and we can solve some of the problems,'' said Rep. Tony Coelho, D-Calif., House majority whip. ``We need to have that cooperation. ... We'd like to resolve some problems and get rid of some of this confrontation.'' ``I think at least at the outset ... the appropriate tone is one of cooperation and a spirit of bipartisanship, and let's see how far we can go with that,'' said Rep. Dick Cheney, R-Wyo., House minority whip. Moving to get a jump on other lawmakers, Rep. Tom Tauke, R-Iowa, announced a bill to force roll-call votes before Congress accepts any pay increase, and delay any approved raise two years _ until after the next election. Under current law, Congress automatically gets a boost proposed by the president unless it votes it down. ``Congressional pay adjustments have become a perpetual source of debate, controversy and embarrassment,'' Tauke said. President Reagan is expected to call for a substantial pay raise next week for members of Congress to take effect March 1 unless rejected before then by both houses. An advisory commission has recommended a 50 percent boost for lawmakers, federal judges, and top executive branch officials, with members of Congress giving up lucrative honorariums in exchange. Current congressional pay is $89,500 a year, and the commission's proposal would raise it to $135,000. ``If the president goes ahead and proposes a pay raise we're prepared to go ahead and eliminate the honorariums,'' Coelho said. While the Democratic-controlled Congress awaits Reagan's proposal on the pay issue, on most of the nation's biggest issues it's waiting for the new president-elect to make his positions known. Lawmakers from both parties reaffirmed today their hope that relations with the Bush White House will be good. But Cheney and Coelho, interviewed on ``CBS This Morning'', had differing views on possible tax increases. ``None of us would like to increase taxes but we're willing to listen and watch and we hope that as we get into this, and we have to get to the crunch, that if he (Bush) can't reach the magic number without raising revenue, that he would say so and we would go ahead and do it,'' Coelho said. ``I think the American people voted overwhelmingly in opposition to a tax increase and I don't believe that he should be giving away or making a concession on that point before we even sit down at the table to negotiate,'' said Cheney. New and re-elected members of the House and Senate were being sworn in today, and then the two chambers scheduled organizational chores for two days. Among them: a joint session on Wednesday to count the electoral votes for president. After completing its organizational chores, Congress will adjourn until Jan. 20, although hearings could start before then on some of Bush's legislative proposals. President Reagan sends his final budget to Congress Jan. 9, and Bush is expected to submit his own ideas after taking office. Before fiscal 1990 begins Oct. 1, Congress and the new president must agree on how to cut more than $25 billion in spending, or to raise taxes, in order to meet the goals of the Gramm-Rudman budget balancing law. Awaiting Bush's proposals before offering their own are House Speaker Jim Wright, D-Texas, and the Senate's new majority leader, George Mitchell of Maine. Mitchell succeeds Sen. Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., who will also play a key fiscal role as he moves over to the chairmanship of the Appropriations Committee. Bush pledged repeatedly during the campaign he would not support any new taxes, but many Democrats are openly skeptical he can keep that promise. Among the doubters are the chairmen of the House and Senate Budget committees _ both new to those posts _ Rep. Leon Panetta, D-Calif., and Sen. Jim Sasser, D-Tenn. Sasser has publicly predicted that Bush would be coming to Congress within two years asking for a tax increase. Bob Michel, R-Ill., who returns as the House minority leader, said he suspects some new taxes might have to be combined with spending cuts for the deficit goals to be achieved. ``I suspect down the road a piece that may be part of the answer,'' Michel said in a television interview last weekend. Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, re-elected Senate Republican leader, said he hasn't seen any indications that Bush is softening his anti-tax position. But he warned demands on the federal till are increasing, including tens of billions of dollars needed to bail out failing savings institutions and to reopen the nation's nuclear weapons plants, which have been plagued by safety problems.
<irrelevant> EDITOR'S NOTE _ It's an emotional movement that is picking up momentum and sometimes turning violent. Animal rights groups are becoming more militant and scoring some successes. Even the respected Humane Society of the United States has taken on the very symbol of consumerism, American Express. ROCKVILLE, Md. _ The Humane Society of the United States is urging people to cut up their American Express cards because the credit institution mailed a fur coat catalog announcing: ``Fur _ Because winter is long and life is short.'' ``Follow your heart. Drop your American Express,'' the Washington-based Humane Society told its 830,000 members. That is but one more confrontation in a burgeoning animal rights, animal welfare and animal liberation movement that has been gathering strength across the nation. It is by no means monolithic or even united: The majority would not agree with some of the direct action resulting in burned buildings, theft of records and research animals, and death threats. There are large differences about philosophy and tactics. Many, for example, are unprepared to espouse vegetarianism, while others go so far as to feed a meatless diet to their dogs and cats to spare the suffering of a farm animal. It also has closed down some research projects, caused one company to drop its cosmetics line, and improved conditions for some research animals. Consider the following: _More than 2,000 protesters, led by Bob Barker, walked up Manhattan's Fifth Avenue the day after Thanksgiving _ ``Fur Free Friday.'' There were smaller demonstrations in 66 other American cities. _A research scientist at New York University's prestigious Cornell Medical College made research history when she or the university, or both, yielded to demonstrations and a letter-writing campaign and returned a $530,000 grant to the National Institute of Drug Abuse for a study of barbituate withdrawal in cats. _In England, a few days before Christmas, the Animal Liberation Front claimed responsibility for firebomb attacks on five of Britain's leading department stores, causing millions of dollars of damage in retaliation for selling fur. Dingles, the largest store in Plymouth, was gutted. _President-elect George Bush drew flack for hunting quail on a vacation in Texas. _Police in Norwalk, Conn., are holding animal rights activist Fran Stephanie Trutt, 33, of Queens, N.Y., on $500,000 bail as she awaits trial on charges of attempted murder and possession of pipe bombs. Trutt was arrested on Nov. 11 outside the United States Surgical Corp., a firm that experiments with dogs and has been a frequent target of demonstrators. _In December, ``Bloom County,'' a political comic strip, ran a week of satire on testing rabbits for cosmetics. _And in Huntington, N.Y., on Long Island, a tray of vegetarian dog and cat biscuits, Wow-Bow and Wow-Meow, are baked by an entrepreneurial activist. The radical side of the movement dates back to the anti-vivisectionism of Victorian England, but interest was rekindled by a 1978 book, ``Animal Liberation,'' by Australian philosopher Peter Singer. ``At last we're starting to look like a movement, but I think animal rights is in its early stages,'' says Ingrid Newkirk, chief strategist and director of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the most radical of an estimated 3,000 to 7,000 groups involved in animal welfare. A PETA spokeswoman estimates that 10 million Americans are involved and guesses that the operating budgets of the myriad groups come to about $50 million. That's not counting the money held in endowments by the established giants, who tend to be less militant. While businessmen and scientists say they are worried, activists claim they have never hurt a human nor an animal. Alex Pacheco, a co-founder of PETA, says arson, property destruction, burglary or theft are ``acceptable crimes when they directly alleviate the pain and suffering of an animal.'' The same goes for sit-ins, disruptions at stockholder meetings in attempts to pass resolutions to ban product testing on animals. Animal rights people say the experiments are the real crime and that 40 percent of all research animals are used for cosmetic and product testing, often as insurance against a theoretical lawsuit, not as safety measures. ``Do we really need the 48th brand of oven cleaner?'' Newkirk asks. The blitz against wearing fur is the most visible campaign. There are ads atop taxis, on billboards, in subways and buses. Celebrities such as Rue McClanahan and Loretta Swit have participated. Even Princess Di was commended for her refusal to wear fur. The fur industry tries to keep the activists off the air. Richard Parsons, executive director of the Fur Retailers Information Council, says furriers have been asked not to give interviews because they tend to ``shoot themselves in the foot.'' Like the time one told a reporter that all American furs are farm-raised. Not true. ``We can't threaten to pull our ads, because that's how we sell our furs,'' Parsons says. ``But we're big advertisers and sometimes we get a pretty good response. Sometimes we can keep them off the air. We try. ``We don't debate them. We don't dignify them. We don't need to defend the use of fur. It's a matter of personal freedom. This is still a capitalistic society, and it is supposed to be a tolerant one.'' Sales have not been affected, Parsons says, although the industry is looking to increase the international levy at auction houses to increase its war chest to combat the anti-fur forces. ``The American fur industry has had locks jammed, arson, bomb threats and windows smashed,'' Parsons says. ``Giving this movement credibility gives in to more violence.'' Dan Mathews, a 24-year-old PETA member in charge of the anti-fur campaign, says, ``The fur industry will be the first domino to fall. We are not asking you to change your life, just give up cruelty.'' Besides the furriers, the cosmetic industry, research scientists, and producers of livestock, eggs, chickens, and milk _ ``factory farmers'' as the activists call them _ are under attack. ``So what if we put a few businesses under,'' Mathews says. ``The slave traders lost an industry, too.'' The anti-vivisectionist faction believes that man has evolved to a point where he can live without any animal products _ meat, milk, leather, fur, wool, etc. They feel that neither the cosmetic industry nor medical researchers have the right to experiment on animals; that zoos, rodeos, race tracks, even the household pet is an exploitation of the animal kingdom. ``We are not saying animals have the same rights as man,'' says George Cave of Trans-Species Unlimited. ``Sometimes, we have to make choices.''
<irrelevant> Cave, a former professor of philosophy, exempts American Indians and Eskimos, whose survival is dependent on the hunting of game. The movement is marked by a hyperbolic rhetoric reminiscent of the '60s. Some activists call themselves freedom fighters for animals. Newkirk is happy to reiterate a statement some others wish she had never said in the first place. ``I can't even remember it exactly,'' says British-born Newkirk, ``but I stand by it l00 percent. What I said was a pig is a boy is a dog is a rat in that they are all sentient beings, they are all capable of suffering. That is indisputable.'' The various groups are not above squabbling, especially over funding. Cave says the Humane Society of the United States, which has an annual budget of $9 million, ``has a stranglehold on the funds that is totally unethical. Its president, John Hoyt, is paid $139,000 a year. The Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has a fortune sitting idle in investments. They could wipe out the pet overpopulation in one year if they would use some of that money.'' The MSPCA, founded in 1839, has an endowment of $42 million and spent $15 million last year supporting three veterinarian hospitals, nine shelters and various educational projects. The Humane Society doesn't support some of the statements of the radicals, and deplores the violence. ``We like to be taken seriously when we go to the Hill,'' says a Humane Society spokeswoman. ``We don't like to be seen as frothing at the mouth.'' Cave, who lives on a $10,000 salary, part of his group's total budget of $350,000, led the Cornell campaign. He calls it a landmark in that the challenge was not about sloppy laboratory conditions, but the very nature of the research. He maintained that barbituate addiction is a complex human problem and that it was inappropriate to expose cats _ or any animal _ to the horrors of withdrawal, a self-inflicted condition in humans. Cave is now attacking a glue-sniffing experiment using monkeys at New York University Hospital. In nice weather, Trans-Species has 14 tables out every weekend on New York City streets explaining its philosophy. The biomedical research community has reacted by forming a Washington-based educational and lobbying group. ``We're not talking here about little old ladies in blue hair,'' says Frankie Trull, president of the Foundation for Biomedical Research. ``We have heard of over 50 death threats. The research community is so unprepared for the animal rights movement. First of all, they have jobs and they don't have time to hang out at shopping centers with signs. ``It is costing millions in increased security, replacing animals that were stolen and buildings that were torched. It is no laughing matter.'' The research scientist at Cornell, Dr. Michiko Okamoto, refuses to talk to reporters. Her colleagues say she was shocked by the developments. Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, a cardiovascular surgeon who became a household name, has emerged as one spokesman for the researchers. Now 80, but working daily from 4 a.m. till midnight, DeBakey says he occasionally gets death threats. He sees the animal rights movement as one with great emotional appeal, but one that is not telling the whole story. ``These people are intimidating a lot of people,'' DeBakey says. ``If you want to become a Jehovah's Witness and refuse blood from another person, I have no argument. I don't agree with it, but I respect your right to do it. What I object to here is the attempt to enforce this view on others. ``I have yet to see a patient who refused treatment from research gained from animals. Do these people plan on turning down such treatment if they need it?'' DeBakey says his surgical breakthroughs, which saved thousands of lives, resulted from experimentation on dogs. ``Almost everything in the cardiovascular field was developed through animal research. You can't use cells or cell cultures or computers.'' The surgeon says animal activists ``are not improving the conditions of animals used in research, They are pricing it out of the market. Twelve states have now passed laws prohibiting the use of pound animals. Yet the taxpayer spends $600 million a year caring for pound animals and putting them to sleep. ``The activists have great political strength and slick organizations. They say alternative methods can be used. They are wrong.'' DeBakey worries about the Cornell decision. ``It is disturbing to see an institution of higher learning cave in,'' DeBakey says. ``The integrity of that academic institution is eroded.'' Medical scientists point to the great strides made using animal models. Everything from polio vaccine to treatments for such diseases as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease have benefited from research on animals. The activists insist the same advances could have been made using different kinds of research. Dr. Frederick King, director of the Yerkes Primate Center at Emory University in Atlanta, also a target of death threats, is eager to speak out. Researchers at his institution are injecting chimpanzees with the deadly AIDS virus (So far it has not jumped their immune barrier, but King says that does not mean it will not with a longer incubation). The animals rights militants say that is not necessary since there are thousands of dying human victims who would gladly allow themselves to be experimented upon. ``Forget the ethical questions,'' Newkirk says. ``It's bad science. They are retarding the AIDS research by using animals.'' King dismisses that argument. He says it's yet another case of non-scientists throwing in their non-scientific opinion. ``My question is where have all the moderates gone?'' King says. ``Even Jane Goodall, who came here about a year ago, has turned to their side. She's a one-agenda person, fanatically attached to chimps. ``The moderates all seem to have gone into the woodwork.''
<irrelevant> Stock prices began the year on a down note today as Wall Street focused on the continuing specter of higher interest rates. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials was off 6.43 to 2,162.14 as of 10 a.m. EST. Declining issues were ahead of advancers by a margin of about 5-to-4, with 415 stocks up, 533 down and 556 unchanged on the New York Stock Exchange. Big Board volume totaled 17.82 million shares after the first half-hour of trading. Larry Wachtel, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc., said today's early decline was due in part to an ``overextension of the blue chips.'' However, he said, the main problem on Wall Street was traders' continuing concerns about interest rates. Those concerns were fueled in part by a survey by the National Association of Purchasing Management that indicated the economy remains robust, Wachtel said. With the economy running at a strong clip, the financial markets expect the Federal Reserve to raise its discount rate. ``There's no sign of a rate peak,'' Wachtel said. Traders were looking toward Friday's release of employment data for December for further clues about the Fed's intentions, he said. Declines in the dollar and Treasury bond prices today also contributed to the decline on Wall Street, analysts said. The most actively-traded issue on the NYSE was Philips Petroleum, up [ at 19|. IBM was up \ at 122[, General Electric was off \ at 44{ and Ford Motor was down [ at 50]. The NYSE's composite index of all its listed stocks was off 0.54 at 155.72. On the American Stock Exchange, the market value index was unchanged at 306.01. On Friday, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 14.11 points to close at 2,168.57. That left the market's best-known barometer with a decline of 0.36 for the week, but a gain of 229.74 points, or 11.85 percent, for the year. Advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 3 to 2 in nationwide trading of New York Stock Exchange-listed stocks, with 945 up, 594 down and 466 unchanged. Volume on the floor of the Big Board came to 127.21 million shares, down from 131.29 million in Thursday's session.
</top>
<top>
<num> 94
<title> Computer-aided Crime
<relevant> A computer hacker charged with infiltrating systems in the United States and England, was declared ``a very, very great danger to the community'' Tuesday by a judge who renewed his imprisonment without bail. U.S. District Judge Mariana R. Pfaelzer made her ruling after Kevin David Mitnick, 25, pleaded innocent to computer fraud charges and his attorney urged the judge to release him on bail. Attorney Alan Rubin argued that Mitnick is ``being held incommunicado'' and is being treated more harshly than men charged with violent crimes. ``My client is being portrayed as some sort of Machiavellian figure _ either out of government paranoia ... or some other government agenda I'm not aware of,'' said attorney Alan Rubin. Rubin accused the government of exaggerating the seriousness of the case and suggested that Mitnick be released to his family with a tap placed on his telephone. But the judge, citing Mitnick's previous misdemeanor conviction on a similar computer related crime, rejected that suggestion. ``Isn't it highly likely he'll do it again?'' she asked. Rubin insisted he wouldn't repeat the action. A Mitnick associate who turned him in has told of the young man's genius with computers and his alleged ability to tap into computers operated by the National Security Agency, among others. The super-secret NSA is responsible for electronic eavesdropping, gathering data from U.S. spy satellites and conducting sophisticated signals intelligence. Assistant U.S. Attorney Leon Weidman, said he will file further charges against Mitnick next week. ``We believe he's extremely dangerous and should not be allowed any access to a computer or telephone,'' Weidman said. Mitnick is being held in a maximum-security cell at the federal Metropolitan Detention Center, where he is not allowed to make phone calls unless he is monitored by an administrator. A federal grand jury indicted him Dec. 20 on computer fraud charges. He is accused of unauthorized use of MCI long-distance codes to tap into computers at Leeds University in England and the University of Southern California, and of causing $4 million damage to a Digital Equipment Corp. computer system. Leonard DiCicco, 23, an associate who reported Mitnick to authorities, has described the defendant as ``a big fat slob of a guy who couldn't get through a day without breaking into a computer somewhere.'' ``It's scary to think of the things he's capable of,'' said DiCicco. The 5-11, 240-pound Mitnick, clad in a khaki prison uniform, answered, ``Not guilty,'' twice when asked for his plea to the charges against him. His trial was tentatively set for Feb. 21 but Judge Pfaelzer said that would be changed if a new indictment is filed. ``I have no doubt that he is a very, very great danger to the community,'' she said. ``I also believe he is a flight risk.'' She ordered restrictions on his telephone use to remain in effect. When Rubin objected to Mitnick being housed in a high security area of the prison, Ms. Pfaelzer declared: ``The court thinks high security is entirely appropriate with this defendant.'' Rubin said he believed authorities were reacting to ``technology fear and other reports of computer viruses'' elsewhere in the nation. Mitnick reportedly used the code name ``Condor'' in his electronic activities, taking the name from the 1975 film ``Three Days of the Condor,'' in which Robert Redford played a CIA researcher and telephone expert. DiCicco contends that Mitnick is obsessed with two things _ fast food and computers. ``All he did was eat Fat Burgers, drink Slurpees and work on computers,'' DiCicco said.
<relevant> To the associate who turned him in, Kevin David Mitnick is a ``big, fat slob'' obsessed with fast food and breaking into computer systems. To the authorities holding him without bail, the 25-year-old Los Angeles man is an expert hacker who calls himself Condor and is so dangerous he must never be allowed to use even a telephone without supervision. ``He is truly a threat to society, someone who uses computers to act out personal vendettas against people,'' said Jim Black, a computer crime specialist with the Police Department. ``The bottom line with Kevin is that if you have a job, pay a gas bill, use a phone or drive a car he can find you and ruin you electronically,'' Black said in a telephone interview. ``If he wasn't in jail, he could be listening to us right this minute.' Mitnick was being held today in a maximum-security cell at the federal Metropolitan Detention Center. A federal grand jury indicted him Dec. 20 on computer fraud charges, accusing him of using unauthorized MCI long-distance codes to tap into computers at Leeds University in England and the University of Southern California and causing $4 million damage to a Digital Equipment Corp. computer system. Mitnick will plead innocent, said his attorney, Alan Rubin. ``We will also try to get bail set,'' Rubin said. ``I am shocked and astonished that my client is being held without bail and in solitary confinement. This thing has been blown completely out of proportion.'' Longtime associate Leonard DiCicco, 23, of Calabasas, said he reported Mitnick's activities to authorities because Mitnick had been threatening him. ``He was using DEC computers where I work and threatening that we would both go down if I said anything,'' said DiCicco, who faces no charges in the inquiry. ``He has no sense of right or wrong and no respect for anyone else's privacy,'' DiCicco said. ``I was beside him through all this hacking and it's scary to think of the things he is capable of.'' ``He could pick apart almost any computer system in the United States,'' Black said. ``There are probably only a handful of computer specialists with his capabilities.'' In his electronic activities, the 5-11, 240-pound Mitnick referred to himself as Condor, Black said. DiCicco said Mitnick named himself for Robert Redford's character's code name in the spy movie ``Three Days of the Condor.'' ``All he did was eat Fat Burgers, drink Slurpees and work on computers,'' DiCicco said. ``He was a big, fat slob of a guy who couldn't get through a day without breaking into a computer somewhere.'' Mitnick began his hacking career using telephones, authorities said. By age 13, he was under investigation by the police department, Pacific Bell telephone company and the Federal Communications Commission, the Los Angeles Daily News said Monday. ``Mitnick was a legend to the computer world by 1981,'' said John Christ, his high school computer teacher. In 1982, DiCicco said, he and Mitnick used USC's 24-hour student computer lab to get into many computers, including classified systems. ``Our favorite was the National Security Agency computer because it was supposed to be so confidential,'' DiCicco said. ``It was like a big playground once you got into it.''
<relevant> Here is a list of some of the more notorious prosecutions pressed by the office of Rudolph Giuliani, U.S. attorney for the southern district of New York, who announced his resignation Tuesday: The ``pizza connection'' trial convicted 18 defendants of participating in a Mafia-backed drug racket, operated through pizza parlors, that imported an estimated $1.6 billion worth of heroin into the United States. The case, which began Sept. 30, 1985, and ended 17 months later with 18 convictions and one acquittal, was one of the longest criminal cases in federal court history. The defendants were sentenced to lengthy prison terms and ordered to pay steep fines. Eight of them were also ordered to pay $3.3 million into a fund to treat drug addicts. Giuliani's office prosecuted insider trading cases in the scandal that continues to shake Wall Street. Dennis Levine, a mergers executive with Drexel Burnham Lambert, pleaded guilty to charges of securities fraud, tax evasion, and perjury and was sentenced to two years in prison and fined $362,000. Takeover stocks speculator Ivan Boesky was given a lenient sentence of three years in prison and fined $100 million in exchange for cooperation with investigators. Among those caught in the avalanche were the firms of Kidder, Peabody &amp; Co., which paid $25.29 million to settle charges, and Drexel Burnham Lambert, which agreed to plead guilty to six felonies and pay a record $650 million fine. Former Miss America Bess Myerson, her lover Andy Capasso, and state Supreme Court Justice Hortense Gabel were tried and acquitted of conspiracy, mail fraud and bribery charges stemming from an alleged plot to fix Capasso's divorce payments. Myerson had been charged with giving a city job to the judge's daughter, Sukhreet, so Gabel would reduce Capasso's support payments to his estranged wife. Myerson also was acquitted of an obstruction of justice charge for allegedly trying to influence the grand jury testimony of the judge's daughter, Sukhreet. Giuliani's office brought tax charges against real estate and hotel moguls Harry and Leona Helmsley. They were indicted on state and federal charges of evading taxes by disguising $4 million in renovations to their Greenwich, Conn., mansion as business expenses and taking bogus tax deductions. Giuliani personally prosecuted the case against Bronx Democratic boss Stanley Friedman and four co-defendants for a scheme to get a $22.7 million Parking Violations Bureau contract for hand-held computers through a pattern of racketeering. Friedman was convicted and sentenced to 12 years in prison. Former U.S. Rep. Mario Biaggi was accused of turning Wedtech Corp., a defunct South Bronx defense contractor, into a racketeering enterprise that paid out millions of dollars in bribes to public officials for help in winning no-bid contracts. Biaggi was convicted of all but one of the 16 counts against him including racketeering, extortion and mail fraud and sentenced to eight years in prison and fined $242,000. Biaggi resigned from office a day after his conviction. Others convicted with Biaggi included his son Richard, former Bronx Borough President Stanley Simon, Wedtech founder John Mariotta, and former Small Business Administration official Peter Neglia. In December, another Bronx congressman, Rep. Robert Garcia, was accused of using his position to demand and obtain payoffs from Wedtech, which was headquartered in his congressional district. He is charged with extortion, bribery and receipt of illegal gratuties.  Calling it ``a major American scandal'' of Mafia domination of organized labor, Guiliani sought to force reforms on the International Brotherhood of Teamsters by filing a civil racketeering lawsuit. The government wants a federal judge to remove from office any Teamsters officers found at trial to have violated federal racketeering laws. The lawsuit also sought appointment of a union trustee to ensure free and fair union elections. Named as defendants were: the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America; the general executive board of the union, as a group; the executive board's 18 members and one former member as individuals; 26 alleged members or associates of the American Mafia, or La Cosa Nostra; and the mob's ruling ``Commission'' as a group. Twenty-five of those 26 defendants already have been convicted of Teamsters-related crimes such as labor peace extortion, embezzling union funds or taking labor payoffs.  Former Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos and his wife, Imelda, were indicted by a federal grand jury in New York on racketeering charges, which alleged they plundered their homeland of hundreds of millions of dollars and defrauded U.S. banks. ``No one is above the law,'' Giuliani said in announcing the indictments Oct. 21. Mrs. Marcos has pleaded innocent to the charges, while Marcos has remained in Hawaii, claiming he is too ill to travel to New York for his court appearance.
<relevant> EDITOR'S NOTE _ The infection proved curable, at a hefty cost. No sensitive secrets were penetrated. But the anguish a now-famous computer virus produced last November has led to soul-searching about computer security. The fact is that the machines are vulnerable to all sorts of interference, from playful hackers to sophisticated criminals. Second of three articles. The bad news is that computers get diseases. The worse news is that when they do, the illness can spread at the speed of light, leaving everything from household accounts to business data to power plants to defense systems fatally stricken. Apocalypse now? It's not just a movie. ``There's a potential risk that matches the destructiveness of a nuclear attack,'' warns Donn Parker, an authority on computer crime at SRI International here. In only a few short years, computers have become the bedrock of how the United States and, increasingly, the developed world operate. Computers handle half a trillion dollars in U.S. bank transfers a day. They guide planes through the air and back to land. They monitor hospital patients, predict weather, run phone systems, plant crops and check the results out of supermarkets, store any data imaginable. Your bank balance. The national debt. When a computer gets sniffles, a whole system can catch pneumonia. Computer technology advances almost daily. So do the techniques of computer security. So do the threats of someone, witting or unwitting, monkey-wrenching whole systems. Computers get sick for the same reasons humans catch flu or VD. They interconnect. The illnesses bear the same familiar names that attack people: worms, bugs, viruses. They work the same way, invading a system and replicating or infiltrating until the body is overwhelmed. A worm broadly believed to have been planted last November by Cornell grad student Robert Morris within hours fouled up some 6,000 interconnected computers in a defense-university network. Estimates of the damage done and the man-hours spent to repair it run from $20 to $95 million. The origins of computer disease vary. Begin with the hacker, the computer junkie who spends every waking minute bopping around in computerland exploring its fascinations. Then come the mischievous, then the malicious and then the outright criminal: the embezzler, the corporate spy. What Donn Parker fears is the arrival, eventually, of the terrorist. Some case histories of computer illness, benign and less so: In 1986 then Israeli Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir was about to give a speech which said: ``Let us say yes to a great, massive, successful and victorious Herut movement.'' Just before delivery it was discovered an otherwise-minded employee had wormed his way into Shamir's computer and changed the text to read: ``Let us say yes to a tiny, worrying and incompetent Herut movement.'' In Fort Worth, Texas, an uneasy employee planted a ``time bomb'' in his company computer. Any time his name did not appear, indicating he'd been fired, the hidden instruction would activate, destroying the firm's files. About five years ago in New York, students at the exclusive Dalton School found their way into the computers at the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. They were discovered before they could do any damage, intended or inadvertent, to medical files. In Hayward, Calif., a rapist used a computer to get the addresses of women he attacked by tracing their license plates through state files to which he had access. In the Equity Funding scandal of the '70s, a ring used computers to steal some $70 million. Besides the federal government, 48 states have laws against computer crime. The remaining two, Vermont and West Virginia, are considering introducing legislation this year. ``In effect, the laws say thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not do damage and thou shalt not trespass,'' said Jay BloomBecker, who runs the National Institute for Computer Crime Data in Los Angeles. He estimates computer crime may have reached the billions-a-year level in the United States. ``The problem is getting society to treat computer crime as it does other crimes.'' Computers are a natural for disease and crime because they are vulnerable. They are vulnerable because their usefulness is magnified many times over when they talk to each other to exchange news or data or memory. Unfortunately, that means they can share infection. ``A network is for exchange of information,'' says Richard Koenig, associate director of the Computer Security Institute in Northborough, Mass. ``If it needs a lot of security, you defeat its purpose.'' ``Any communication designed for easy access is subject to tampering,'' says Bill Cunningham, head of management information systems for The Associated Press. To stop tampering or worse, Koenig foresees the day when access to computer networks will be encoded like a scrambler phone. But that only makes computers even more intimidating to the unpracticed layman than they already are. It's a dilemma. To the hacker, it's more likely a challenge. ``The more complex a system gets, the more nooks and crannies for hackers to try and get into,'' says Tom Mandel, a computer futurist at SRI. This is not to point a finger at hackers. Quite the contrary. Their contribution to technology is inestimable. They push machines beyond their designed limits to new horizons. Their genius with software is one reason the United States leads the world in that technology.
<relevant> Hackers resent guilt by association with computer viruses. They call people who spread them or commit evil computer deeds ``crackers.'' They think crackers deserve jail as an example. Most computer crimes are done not by hackers but by company insiders, according to BloomBecker's last survey in 1986. ``And they were far less sophisticated than hackers,'' he notes. Nonetheless, there may be as many as 8 million personal computers in the United States. Worldwide sales of PCs in 1986 were $50.9 billion. So a lot of people have new toys. ``Technology draws people to play with it,'' says Don Ingraham, an assistant prosecutor in Alameda County, Calif., who specializes in computer crime. And a lot of kid hackers ``gum up the works'' because they don't know any better, Mandel says. Morris, a hacker whose father was at Bell Labs and is now a computer security expert with the National Security Agency, may have had only an elegant prank in mind. But he made a mistake with his worm, and it ate up disks. Hackers who sign off on computer bulletin boards as Crimson Death, Phantom Phreaker, Nightstalker add a darker dimension. Dave Flory, who heads the fraud unit for the San Jose police, cites studies and experience that indicate that 2 percent of the population are sociopathic and 1 percent of them criminally so. They tend to be brighter than average and younger males, as are those intrigued by computers. Flory leaves the inference standing. But when does hacking become cracking? A hacker has been breaking into Flory's police bulletin board and says he won't leave unless the cops pay his phone bills to play long-distance computer games. ``That's extortion,'' says Flory. San Jose cops caught two teen-agers in a phone booth trying to hook up a laptop to a phone. ``They were in it for the sexual thrill of knowing secrets,'' says Flory. But it's also attempted theft from the phone company. ``They'll probably get three months at the most.'' ``Generally, the punishment does not fit the crime,'' Donn Parker believes. There are a great many gray areas. When a 15-year-old Cupertino boy got into the Stanford University computer to change grades Stanford stored for high schools as a community service, what's that? A prank? Illegal entry? What is it when somebody has invaded your computer so that a nude woman begins appearing as you're doing your income tax, leaving you with the message: ``You should be doing something better than looking at this trash''? Or the Cookie Monster that stopped your computer until you wrote out ``C-O-O-K-I-E'' to its request ``I want a cookie?'' Are these viruses jokes? Invasions of privacy? ``Hackers know where the line is,'' says Jef Poskanzer, a 30-year-old Berkeley hacker and software programmer. ``Maybe,'' says Flory, ``but a guy who wouldn't come at you with a knife may harm you with a computer because it's impersonal. He won't see blood.'' ``Someone could pirate your technology, and it's not valuable to you for eight years until the research pays off. How do you quantify the loss?'' asks Koenig. ``What is the value of intellectual property? We're still struggling with this.'' If a hacker in Ithaca, N.Y., does damage to computer data in California, has he violated California criminal laws against unauthorized access? ``It's like a guy upstream dumping pollutants in a creek,'' says Ingraham. ``The guy downstream who waters his stock in the creek has a case. But our national laws are inadequate.'' Computer technology moves so fast the laws lag behind. It's like the early days of the Old West. Cattlemen moved in and grazed their herds on open range just as hackers used to browse unhindered in computerland. Then the sheepmen arrived and put up fences. Range wars resulted until the law could set guidelines. ``We don't teach breaking and entering in architectural school. Don't teach aspects of cracking in grade school,'' says Ingraham. ``It's the same thing.'' Parker believes schoolchildren should be taught computer ethics just as they are taught computer use. ``We teach driver education because there is an obligation to tell kids what the law is before we send them out on the road.'' For the criminal, to whom ethics are immaterial, the computer has been a bonanza. ``Today you can commit a crime in Berkeley from Oslo if you wanted,'' Ingraham says. Jesse and Frank James had to have horses and Colt .45s and a bag for the swag to rob a bank. Today you don't even have to be present at the bank. The loot's on tape. The technology has exploded to the point, Parker says, where the thief is confronted with a new problem: how much to take. ``The smart criminal steals below the pain threshold of the victim. To avoid embarrassment, the company may just say take your money and go. But the thief still has to take enough to get to Rio or hire a good lawyer if he doesn't make it.'' Computers save prostitutes the cost of a pimp. They book customers via bulletin boards. Ingraham rarely sees a drug bust where the dealers don't keep track of business on computers. The only secure computer is one still in the box it came in or one that never talks to another. Any further security is manmade and, therefore, fallible.
<irrelevant> A lone assassin rapidly fired five shots at point-blank range through the window of a small pizzeria, then vanished into the cold December night on a motorcycle. He left behind three people dead or dying, three wounded and his Belgian-made, 12-gauge sawed-off shotgun _ a trademark of an underworld killing. The next morning, at a gas station across town, a mob-linked contractor opened the door of his bulletproof car and died, along with his son-in-law, in bursts of submachine-gun and automatic rifle fire. The 'ndrangheta, the name for the Calabrian underworld, has made a killing field of the faded cities and towns in the rugged hills and along the jagged coast of Italy's impoverished southern tip. In the past year, 165 people have been murdered in the province of Reggio Calabria, at least 50 of them in this city across the Strait of Messina from Sicily. The death toll is staggering when compared to just 31 killings in the province of Rome, which has a population of about 3.7 million, more than six times greater than Reggio Calabria's 589,000. Investigators say most of the Calabrian dead fell victim to the struggle for control of the drug trade or to a 25-year-old blood feud between two powerful crime families. ``In certain zones of Sicily, Calabria and Campagna (Naples), the possession of the territory by organized crime is total,'' Domenico Sica, Italy's high anti-Mafia commissioner, recently told Parliament's Anti-Mafia Commission. The bosses of the 'ndrangheta, which means ``society of valorous men,'' rule their Calabrian territories through fear and intimidation. Their retribution is swift and lethal. Often, life in their domain is short and incredibly cheap. One Rome-based investigator, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the average price for a hired killing in Calabria is $400. Free-lance hit men sometimes kill for free, hoping to curry favor with a certain boss. Drugs are at the core of the criminal empire that links the 'ndrangheta with the Sicilian Mafia, Colombian cocaine kingpins and heroin warlords of Asia. Experts estimate Italian crime bosses earn $10 billion to $12 billion a year from the international heroin trade and that sales of cocaine and other drugs may push the total above $20 billion. The 'ndrangheta also profits from murders-for-hire, gunrunning, trading in counterfeit dollars, and kidnapping rings that collect huge ransoms for quick reinvestment in drug deals. Calabrian businesses must pay extortion to avoid the torch, and corrupt politicians swell `ndrangheta coffers with millions misdirected from public works contracts, government development funds and investment schemes designed to benefit Italy's blighted south. To reassert control, the government proposes expanding the powers of police investigating organized crime and drug trafficking. One measure would give police the authority to conduct undercover investigations _ forbidden in a postwar Italy that remembers abuses under the fascist dictatorship of Benito Mussolini. In Rome, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration agents already are quietly training Italian authorities in undercover work. Interior Minister Antonio Gava also has promised better training for police, specialized departments, creation of mobile groups to help in trouble spots and new local commissioners to oversee the war on crime in Calabria. This encourages Lt. Col. Corrado Borruso, commander of the Carabinieri paramilitary police in Reggio Di Calabria, who are on the front line of the war with crime. Borruso said he believes the government can defeat the `ndrangheta, that it can use expanded powers and undercover operations to go after the leaders and stop the killing. ``It will be a struggle, really a long struggle,'' said Borruso. ``We must seek to stop this slaughter through the arrest of the big bosses who pull the strings of all the `ndrangheta operations.'' However, some other investigators question the political will of the government to do the things necessary to defeat organized crime. Billions of dollars in illicit profits bolster the clout of the Mafia and 'ndrangheta, and some politicians owe their careers to votes collected by the mob. Privately some investigators admit they can't penetrate the tightknit clans of the 'ndrangheta and don't know enough about its operation. For example, they know the Calabrians help smuggle tons of morphine base into Italy from southwest Asia, to refine it and to sell it in Europe and in the United States through contacts in Toronto. But they don't know the details of the partnership with the Sicilians, who really control the drug market, or how much the Calabrians share in the profits. Informers and hirelings willing to testify against their Calabrian bosses are extremely rare. ``He who is blind, deaf and dumb will live a hundred years,'' advises an Italian proverb on the code of silence called the ``Omerta'' or ``Diffidenza.'' The `ndrangheta has a long memory and a long reach. While Italy, laments the Rome-based investigator, has no effective witness protection program. The government's enemy is also formidable in its sheer size. Police say there are 156 'ndrangheta clans in Calabria, 93 of them in the province of Reggio Calabria. Police records list slightly over 4,000 members of the clans in Calabria. But investigators have said they believe that for everyone on the list there are at least two who have escaped identification. Police from all agencies in Calabria number about 3,600. But Borruso and other investigators bristle at suggestions that they need more manpower, apparently considering such recommendations a veiled slap at police effectiveness. ``It is not only a question or a problem for the police,'' said Borruso. The government, he said, must change the things in Calabria that permit the `ndrangheta to flourish. His sentiments are echoed by politicians, both nationally and locally, who believe Italy can never defeat the `ndrangheta in Calabria, the Camorra in Campagna or the Mafia in Sicily as long as the regions are allowed to languish in poverty. Calabria ranks at the bottom of the list of per capita income by region, with its citizens earning 44 percent less than the national average. Calabria's unemployment rate of 21.6 percent is nearly twice the 11.9 percent for Italy as a whole and two and a half times the rate for the country's affluent north. Calabria, like much of the rest of southern Italy, has not benefited significantly from the industrial boom and the economic resurrgence that Italy contends has given it the West's fifth-largest economy. Many of Calabria's factories sit idle. Its ports are largely empty. Much of its land is rocky, mountainous and untilled. ``In the absence of an adequate presence by the state, the 'ndrangheta has penetrated into the vital nerve centers of the economy, politics and public administration,'' Calabria's regional president, Rosario Olivio, said at a recent meeting with Sica, Gava and anti-Mafia investigators. ``The central problem is unemployment and around that turns everything else,'' said Olivio.
<irrelevant> Car thefts dropped dramatically after the military drummed out hundreds of sticky-fingered troops, the country's constabulary chief said today. Maj. Gen. Ramon Montano said the rate of car thefts nationwide dropped from 6.6 per day in March to 1.5 per day in December. He linked the plunge to a ``no-nonsense'' campaign in which about 400 soldiers suspected of having links with car theft rings were dismissed. ``We eased them out, and of course the crimes decreased because of this,'' Montano said in a television interview. ``And I know that this policy of ours is a very big deterrent for others who may be prone to commit this crime.'' He said that the rate of serious offenses _ such as murder, rape and aggravated assault _ decreased from 17 incidents per 100,000 people in 1987 to 14 per 100,000 last year. However, total crime rate, including serious crimes, went up by 1.2 percent from 1987 to 1988, Montano said. He gave no comparative figures. ``We in the Philippine Constabulary are happy because the crime rate was controllable last year,'' Montano said. He said more police would help in their drive against criminals. ``This, together with getting rid of our own misfits and scalawags, and increasing our crime solution efficiency, we hope (would) increase the deterrent effect of our laws.''
<irrelevant> A former city tax official was charged Friday in connection with a scheme to under-report millions of dollars in taxes for about 80 businesses in this financially strapped city, prosecutors said. Barry T. Bergeron was charged with two counts of mail fraud, one count of extortion and one count of federal income tax evasion, according to the indictment returned Friday. If convicted he faces up to 35 years in jail and a $112,000 fine. According to the indictment, Bergeron, a former city revenue collection supervisor, prepared fraudulent business tax returns in exchange for monthly payments. U.S. Attorney John Volz would not specify the amount of the payments. ``The city taxes uncollected would probably be in the millions,'' Volz said. New Orleans is particularly strapped for cash. To erase a $30 million deficit for 1989, the city council has had to cut spending and raise taxes. Volz indicated that a plea bargain had been struck with Bergeron, but would not elaborate. No arraignment date has been announced. Volz said that the government could have charged Bergeron with 80 counts of mail fraud _ one for each of the businesses with which he dealt _ but did not. None of the 80 business owners were indicted, but Volz said the investigation is continuing and that his office is also looking at possible involvement by city elected officials. In June, a federal court jury convicted former city tax collector Brian Eastwold of extortion, mail fraud and obstruction of justice for taking bribes to reduce a business owner's sales tax liability. The first count of mail fraud stems from Bergeron's mailing of a city sales tax form to the Ideal Food Store. The second mail fraud charge involves a scheme to help some grocery store owners in redeeming unused merchandise cents-off coupons for about $66,000. Volz said that some of the stores in Bergeron's coupon scheme also were involved in under-reporting their income. The indictment says Bergeron under-reported the businesses' income on federal and state tax returns. Bergeron is also charged with under-reporting his and his wife's joint 1987 income by $30,088. Volz refused to connect that money with the payments Bergeron allegedly received from the business owners to prepare their taxes. ``People will repay what they owe,'' Volz said when questioned about possible proceedings against the business owners.
<irrelevant> Prosecutors in the Pentagon procurement investigation say an initial 27-count indictment is just the start of an expected wave of court activity in the prosecution phase of Operation Ill Wind. U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson of the Eastern District of Virginia said the pace of the investigation that began more than two years ago is moving with unprecedented speed, given the complexity of the case. ``In the next few months you will see a great deal of additional activity,'' he said. On Friday, a federal grand jury filed the first charges in the procurement case, accusing a defense contractor, a Navy employee and five other men with crimes including conspiracy, bribery and theft of government property. Hudson, who is leading the nationwide investigation into the Defense Department's $150 billion-a-year purchasing system, said the indictment ``strikes at the very heart'' of alleged corruption in the procurement process. Kenneth Walton, an FBI official, said the ``No. 1 priority'' of the bureau's white collar crime program is fraud in the Defense Department. The 86-page indictment focuses on activities alleged to have been undertaken by Teledyne Electronics of Newbury Park, Calif., a branch of Teledyne Inc. of Los Angeles, and three men: Navy procurement specialist Stuart E. Berlin and private consultants Fred H. Lackner and William L. Parkin, a former Navy acquisitions official. Specifically, the indictment charges that Teledyne and three of its officers agreed to pay Parkin $160,000 to assist them in obtaining a Navy contract related to radar worth $100 million. The indictment contends Parkin paid Lackner, a California-based private consultant, who ``in turn paid Stuart E. Berlin ... for his assistance in manipulating the procurement process to insure that the ... contract was awarded to Teledyne,'' Hudson said. Berlin participated in various decisions within the Navy affecting the contract and is accused of giving Teledyne advance information so the company could tailor its bids, Hudson said. If convicted of all charges, Berlin, Parkin and Lackner could face maximum penalties of 185 years in prison and fines of $5.5 million each, Hudson told a news conference. Teledyne faces a fine of up to $6.5 million. Also named in the indictment were Teledyne employees George H. Kaub, Eugene R. Sullivan and Dale Schnittjer. They could face confinement ranging between 50 and 85 years and fines of up to $2.5 million if convicted on all counts. The overall conspiracy charge says the defendants worked together to defraud the Navy and the Air Force, to bribe a public official, to make false statements and to commit wire fraud. In advance of the indictment, Teledyne's attorney, Thomas Patten, said the company had been offered a deal by the government but was unsatisfied with the terms. Attorneys for Parkin and Lackner have contended their clients did nothing wrong and would be vindicated in court. Before the indictment was returned, another company, Hazeltine, a division of Emerson Electric Co., agreed to plead guilty in U.S. District Court to conspiracy to defraud the United States, conversion of government property and making false statements to the government, company attorney Scott Muller said. Under terms of the agreement Hazeltine, which is cooperating with the government, agreed to pay fines of nearly $2 million, including court costs. Two former Hazeltine employees, Joseph Colarusso, 58, who was the company's senior vice president, and Charles Furciniti, 54, who was a marketing representative, also pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to defraud the government and commit wire fraud. The maximum sentence they could face is five years in jail and a $250,000 fine. U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton set sentencing for March 17. Michael Savaides, 41, an employee of Teledyne Electronics, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit bribery. He, too, could be sentenced to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine. Prosecutors said those pleading guilty had agreed to cooperate with the government in exchange for reduced charges. All had a relationship with Parkin and Lackner, the consultants who allegedly paid bribes to Berlin. Investigators said Hazeltine hired Parkin to obtain inside information from Pentagon employees that would allow the company to compete for a $15.9 million contract for battlefield equipment. Hazeltine said in a statement that it ``has already taken additional steps to enforce its longstanding requirement of ethical business behavior and to guard against such incidents in the future.'' Federal agents used telephone wiretaps in the case, which was first made public last June when agents searched offices and homes of people suspected to be involved. At the Pentagon, defense officials said the Navy is ``reviewing all information released in connection with the indictments announced ... by the Justice Department to determine any necessary action regarding Navy programs, personnel, contractors or consultants.''
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. rolled out a long-expected line of computer workstations and personal computers Tuesday, including the first high-powered machine that does not belong to its Vax line. Analysts said the most significant product was the DecStation 3100, a fast workstation for scientists, engineers and financial analysts that will compete with models from Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and others. The DecStation 3100 is a breakthrough because of its speed and because it cannot run software written for Digital's Vax computer line. It runs a version of Unix, an industry-standard operating system. ``Up until this point they have maintained that the Vax architecture is the be-all and end-all of the computer world,'' said Gregory Cline, a senior analyst at the Yankee Group in Boston. ``I think it's a smart move,'' Cline said. The DecStation 3100, which Digital billed as ``the world's fastest desktop workstation,'' begins at $11,900. Cline and other analysts said Digital's leadership claim is probably valid, but said Digital could itself be leapfrogged soon by companies such as Sun. Digital also introduced a line of slower workstations that do run its Vax operating system and a line of industry-standard personal computers made to its design by Tandy Corp. However, the personal computers are not capable of using DEC Windows, so programs that run on the PCs will not look the same as programs running on other Digital computers.
</top>
<top>
<num> 95
<title> Computer-aided Crime Detection
<relevant> Plans to expand the FBI crime computer to include tracking of suspects not charged with any crime pose serious problems for constitutional rights, says a panel of computer scientists. ``The files pose a potential threat to the privacy and civil liberties of persons included in the files and to the civil liberties of the public in general,'' said the report by Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility. The report, prepared at the request of Rep. Don Edwards, D-Calif., was made public Sunday. Edwards is planning to hold hearings in March by his House Judiciary subcommittee on FBI plans to update its crime computer. Edwards praised the computer organization's report and said the ``FBI should drop the tracking proposals.'' ``They pose too many problems in terms of security, privacy and accuracy, and it seems that the tracking proposals won't be very useful to law enforcement anyhow,'' Edwards said in a statement. The tracking plan is part of larger blueprints to modernize the FBI's National Crime Information Center, or NCIC. Established in 1967, the NCIC has long been a focus of controversy involving issues of individual privacy. It consists of a main computer at FBI headquarters plus an array of telecommunications lines and a network of state and federal criminal information systems. Through this system, data is exchanged by more than 64,000 state, local and federal law enforcement agencies. It contains some 20 million records of wanted or missing persons, stolen property and criminal histories. According to the report, the NCIC system answers 750,000 inquiries a day and works almost instantaneously. Some police cruising in squad cars are able to query the computer through mobile terminals, the report said. It said the tracking proposals were part of an ``NCIC 2000'' blueprint for updating the system, prepared for the FBI under contract by the MITRE Corp. Under this plan, the FBI would track individuals not subject to an arrest warrant but under investigation. If, for example, such a suspect arrived in New York from abroad, the system would be notified when he passed through Customs. The system itself would notify the law enforcement agency investigating the suspect. And if, on leaving New York, he drove south on the New Jersey Turnpike and received a ticket for speeding, the process would be repeated. ``The NCIC is a valuable law enforcement tool,'' Edwards said. ``We should focus on making it better and more accurate but it should be limited to public record information, like warrants and stolen car reports. He said the agency should ``go slow in expanding the NCIC,'' adding that ``the experts who wrote this report found that the FBI still has not addressed the accuracy and reliability problems'' that critics say exist in the system. The study was prepared by three computer scientists, David D. Redell, Peter G. Neumann and James J. Horning, along with Diana Gordon, a professor of political science at City College of New York, and Janlori Goldman, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union's privacy and technology project.
<relevant> British Airways began inspecting passengers' electronic and electrical equipment Saturday following the announcement that explosives hidden in a radio-cassette player blew up Pan Am Flight 103. In another development, the Department of Transport said it was testing a U.S.-made scanner that can detect plastic explosives, which were believed used to blow up the Pan Am jet. The department denied a report Sunday in the weekly Mail that the instrument already was in use at London's Heathrow airport. ``As it uses neutrons, we have to make sure it is absolutely safe,'' a spokesman said of the computer scanner. The newspaper report said two similar computers were successfully tested at Los Angeles and San Francisco airports. British Airways, Britain's biggest airline was acting on a Department of Transport recommendation that all airlines using British airports examine radios, computers and other electronic or electrical equipment for possible explosives. A department spokesman said the suggestion was sent to airlines Friday and is aimed mainly at battery-operated transistor radios, lap-top computers and cassette recorders in which explosives can be easily hidden, rather than smaller items such as hair dryers. An airline spokesman said British Airways started asking passengers to take all electrical and electronic equipment out of their suitcases for a separate security check, and, when the items were cleared, to carry them aboard as hand baggage. No major delays were reported because of the increased security. At London's Heathrow Airport, New York-bound British Airways passenger Graham Atkinson from Surrey, south of London, was asked to unpack his suitcase to take out a small transistor radio. ``I think it is an excellent move,'' he said. ``I go along with any steps being taken to stop the terrorists. Obviously after Lockerbie, you can't be too careful.'' All 259 people on board Pan Am Flight 103 were killed and 11 people on the ground in Lockerbie, Scotland, died Dec. 21 when a bomb blew up the New York-bound jet. Sheila Dawson from Wimbledon, also bound for New York, said: ``I was asked if I had anything electrical in my luggage when I checked in. In fact I had packed my Walkman in my hand baggage so I was able to show them straight away. ``It's frightening to think that a bomb could be hidden in something as small as that. I agree with the new regulation and I think it should be strictly enforced.'' At a Thursday news conference in Lockerbie, detective John Orr said investigators believe a radio-cassette player contained the explosives that blew up Flight 103. Orr, who is leading the international investigation of the crash, said it appeared likely the explosives were checked in with baggage in Frankfurt before the plane went to London's Heathrow Airport for the final leg of its trip to New York. But there was not enough evidence to determine the identity of the bomber, he said. One group regularly linked to the bombing was Ahmed Jibril's extremist Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command, a Syrian-sponsored faction outside the Palestine Liberation Organization. PLO chief Yasser Arafat said Saturday he would ``punish'' Jibril if he were responsible, but that no evidence has been found. Arafat said he did not think Palestinians were behind the bombing because ``no Palestinan can think to do this awful crime.'' Arafat spoke in an interview with CBS television's ``60 Minutes.'' A transcript of his remarks was released in advance by the network. At a Montreal meeting last week of the International Civil Aviation Organization's governing council, Transport Secretary Paul Channon outlined a program to increase airline security, including checks on electrical and electronic equipment. The organization agreed to consider a worldwide tightening of aviation security rules, including possible restrictions on carrying electrical and electronic devices on planes. Britain decided to go ahead with the recommendation without waiting for the international organization to take action, said the transport spokesman who, in line with British custom, is not identified by name.
<relevant> A Harvard astronomer turned sleuth helped crack an international electronic spy ring in West Germany by tracking down the ``hacker'' who broke into his computer files. For more than six months, finding the computer snoop was a lonely obsession for 38-year-old Clifford Stoll, who initially was unable to convince the FBI to investigate the computer break-in. On Thursday, a West German official announced the arrests of three hackers who allegedly acquired sensitive military computer passwords and codes and sold them to the Soviets. The Pentagon has not determined the extent of the damage to U.S. security. A West German television network said the passwords and other information came from key military and research computers in the United States, Western Europe and Japan. ``I would say (Stoll) was largely responsible for cracking the case,'' said Charles S. Hurley, former spokesman for the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif., where Stoll once worked. ``Over a period of many months, he tracked them.'' It all started with a 75-cent accounting error that Stoll noticed in the California laboratory's shared-time computer system accounts in August 1986. ``If it had been $1,000 off, I wouldn't have thought anything of it,'' Stoll said in an interview Thursday. ``It's like, if your house collapses, you just assume there's been an earthquake. But if you find a tiny termite hole, you think, `Geez, I'd better investigate.' It's the little problems that are the most fascinating.'' Stoll, a computer expert with a doctorate in astronomy from the University of Arizona, searched for clues for three days and discovered the error was caused by someone who had gained access to the computer through telephone lines. ``For four months, I did absolutely nothing but watch what he typed in,'' said the bushy-haired Stoll. Stoll said it became apparent that the hacker was trying to use the Berkeley Laboratory's computer as a gateway to the so-called Milnet, a computer network linking defense plants, university labs and military installations. ``He was searching for key words like nuclear, ICBM, SDI, biological warfare, Norad. He was reading everything he could get his hands on, and then it turns out he was selling it to the Soviets,'' Stoll said. He said he told the FBI about the hacker in the late summer of 1986, but there wasn't much of a response. ``They said, `What have you lost?' I said, `Well, all we've actually lost is 75 cents.' So the FBI said, `Who cares, it's not important.''' To be fair, Stoll added, ``They're much more sensitive to computer break-ins now.'' Charles Steinmetz, a spokesman for the FBI in Washington, said the bureau would not comment on the case. Stoll said his girlfriend, tired of his electronic pager that would beep whenever the hacker got onto the system, was responsible for the big break in the case. She suggested that he lay a trap. He created bogus military data and a fictitious computer network called ``SDI Net.'' The hacker took the bait, spending two hours reading through the material, giving Stoll enough time to trace the call to Hanover, West Germany. Three months later, Stoll said, he got a letter from a man in Pittsburgh asking for information about SDI Net. When he turned that letter over to the FBI in April 1987, he said, the bureau found the man had connections to Eastern European governments and immediately began an investigation. In all, Stoll said the spy ring had attempted to break into about 450 different computers and succeeded in stealing information from more than 40 of them _ including data systems at the Pentagon, defense contracting firms and U.S. military bases around the world. According to a German television network, authorities believe the West German hackers were recruited by the Soviet KGB in 1985 and ``were paid with cash and drugs ... and were later forced to provide the codes and passwords to the Soviets.'' Stoll now has a contract from Doubleday Inc. to write a book about his not-so-amateur sleuthing. But he said he is glad the case is nearing an end so he can get back to work at the Harvard-Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge, Mass. ``In one sense, it was exciting,'' he said. ``In another sense, it was dreadful, because I got zero astronomy done for two years.''
<relevant> Mike Connors, television's long-time good guy, private eye and FBI agent, finally bites the dust on screen in an episode of CBS' ``Murder, She Wrote.'' ``Let me tell you, lying on the floor is the easiest acting I've ever done,'' said Connors. Connors, who dodged bullets on ``Tightrope,'' ``Mannix'' and ``Today's FBI'' and is host of the syndicated show ``Crimes of the Century,'' is the victim on Sunday's episode of ``Murder, She Wrote.'' The hit series stars Angela Lansbury as crime-solving mystery writer Jessica Fletcher. He plays a screenwriter who's adapting one of Jessica's books as a movie. ``He's a throwback character, a combination of Humphrey Bogart and John Garfield,'' said Connors. ``He's driving from Las Vegas and takes a detour and sees an old girlfriend slinging hash. He says, `There she was, a little worse for wear, but still a hot cup of coffee to a thirsty guy like me.' ``We do some flashbacks in black and white. Then I'm shot, and I grab a tape recorder and start telling the story of why I was shot. It's because of that style that I was intrigued with the show.'' Connors said the only other time he has been killed on screen was early in his career when he did a movie for Roger Corman. He will also be seen in May when the final 12 hours of ``War and Remembrance'' are telecast by ABC. He plays Hack Peters, a colonel who is working on the atomic bomb and gets involved with Rhoda Henry, the wife of Pug Henry. His latest series is ``Crimes of the Century,'' which re-creates famous crimes from the Lindbergh kidnapping to the ``Yorkshire Ripper'' in England. ``What's so fascinating is not the crime but the information that comes up,'' said Connors. ``Information that might have changed the outcome of the case. Sam Sheppard (whose conviction in the bludgeoning death of his wife was later overturned) claimed that he saw a bushy-haired man. But the murder weapon, believed to be fire tongs, was never found. ``His next-door neighbor was a bushy-haired man and after he died the new owner of the house was doing some digging and found the missing fire tongs.'' The show began as two highly rated specials on ABC, but became a syndicated series because, Connors said, ABC News objected to a regular, reality-based show produced outside the network. Connors starred on CBS as private detective Joe Mannix from 1967 to '75. Mannix began as an employee of a computerized detective agency, but soon switched over to the traditional format. Joseph Campanella was his boss the first year. After that, Robert Reed became his police contact and Gail Fisher was his secretary. He said he's ready to do a ``Mannix'' movie, but Paramount has turned down all requests so far. ``I get a call from some independent producer about every six months,'' he said. ``I'm interested as long as the script and story is not childish. But nothing ever happens. Paramount won't sell the rights, nor will they do a movie. All we want is a license to do a two-hour movie.'' His most recent feature film was ``The Fistfighter,'' and before that he starred in and produced ``Too Scared to Scream.'' Anne Archer co-starred and Tony Lo Bianco directed on location in New York. ``That film took about two years of my life,'' Connors said. He recently participated in a recording and video to benefit the victims of the earthquake in the Armenian republic in the Soviet Union. More than 100 performers took part in the recording. Connors is of Armenian descent and occasionally explored his background in ``Mannix.'' He also made a pilot called ``Ohanian,'' which is his real name. Elsewhere in television: FIRST MOVIE _ Richard and Esther Shapiro, the creators of ``Dynasty,'' are filming their first movie for NBC, ``When We Were Young.'' The drama, set against the background of the 1960s, has a large ensemble cast headed by Ronny Cox. Daryl Duke is directing. . .. HAMMER RETURNS _ Stacy Keach is reprising his role as hard-boiled private eye Mike Hammer in the CBS movie ``Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer: Murder Takes All.'' The movie, being filmed partially in Las Vegas, also stars Lynda Carter. In this, the fifth Mike Hammer TV movie, the detective is kidnapped, drugged and dropped into the Nevada desert by parachute.
<relevant> Virginia is going to have the first state laboratory in the nation with a data bank of genetic prints, which allow police to nab criminals from scanty physical evidence like saliva left at a crime scene. The Virginia Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services will provide DNA testing for the state's police and sheriff's departments beginning May 1. DNA testing is ``the most significant development for law enforcement since fingerprinting, and that dates back about 100 years,'' said Paul B. Ferrara, director of the state Bureau of Forensic Science. The lab will develop a computerized data bank of DNA prints of sex offenders in the state. State legislation passed last month requires sex offenders to submit blood samples for DNA analysis. DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, is found in the chromosomes of cells, including saliva, hair, blood, semen, tissue and bone marrow. Only identical twins can have the same DNA pattern, or genetic blueprint. Scientists in recent years have developed technology for taking DNA from body fluids or tissue left at a crime scene and matching it with the genetic blueprint of a suspect. ``If a rapist leaves seminal fluid at the scene ... he might as well be leaving his Social Security card,'' Ferrara said. He said DNA testing already helped nabbed one person in Virginia _ Timothy Spencer of Richmond, who was convicted of three capital murders on the basis of genetic printing. ``I'm not a lawyer, but based on what I've been told, Timothy Spencer probably never would have been convicted without the DNA testing,'' Ferrara said. The case is under review by the state Supreme Court. Ferrara said DNA testing also could serve as a criminal deterrent. He said criminals can be careful not to leave fingerprints, as Spencer was, but the chances of committing a violent crime without leaving a DNA sample are slim. Pre-DNA analysis of body fluids, tissue and hair left at crime scenes consisted of examining enzymes and blood types _ processes which only narrowed the list of possible perpetrators. ``Conventional serological evidence was always circumstantial,'' Ferrara said. ``You could say that a particular sample could have come from, say, 13 percent of the male population. But with DNA testing, you can say this sample definitely came from that person. It's just like fingerprints in that respect.'' DNA is inherited, with each parent contributing one-half. For about 10 years, scientists have used DNA testing to establish paternity and to research genetically related diseases. About three years ago, DNA testing was first used to solve a rape in a small town in England, Ferrara said. The technology has since been used to solve several crimes in the United States, but Virginia is among the first states to implement widespread DNA testing. Two Virginia serologists were trained in DNA testing at a lab in New York and Ferrara received $80,000 from the state for equipment and supplies. Last year, Ferrara secured an additional $200,000 in state funds to keep the program going.
<irrelevant> To the associate who turned him in, Kevin David Mitnick is a ``big, fat slob'' obsessed with fast food and breaking into computer systems. To the authorities holding him without bail, the 25-year-old Los Angeles man is an expert hacker who calls himself Condor and is so dangerous he must never be allowed to use even a telephone without supervision. ``He is truly a threat to society, someone who uses computers to act out personal vendettas against people,'' said Jim Black, a computer crime specialist with the Police Department. ``The bottom line with Kevin is that if you have a job, pay a gas bill, use a phone or drive a car he can find you and ruin you electronically,'' Black said in a telephone interview. ``If he wasn't in jail, he could be listening to us right this minute.' Mitnick was being held today in a maximum-security cell at the federal Metropolitan Detention Center. A federal grand jury indicted him Dec. 20 on computer fraud charges, accusing him of using unauthorized MCI long-distance codes to tap into computers at Leeds University in England and the University of Southern California and causing $4 million damage to a Digital Equipment Corp. computer system. Mitnick will plead innocent, said his attorney, Alan Rubin. ``We will also try to get bail set,'' Rubin said. ``I am shocked and astonished that my client is being held without bail and in solitary confinement. This thing has been blown completely out of proportion.'' Longtime associate Leonard DiCicco, 23, of Calabasas, said he reported Mitnick's activities to authorities because Mitnick had been threatening him. ``He was using DEC computers where I work and threatening that we would both go down if I said anything,'' said DiCicco, who faces no charges in the inquiry. ``He has no sense of right or wrong and no respect for anyone else's privacy,'' DiCicco said. ``I was beside him through all this hacking and it's scary to think of the things he is capable of.'' ``He could pick apart almost any computer system in the United States,'' Black said. ``There are probably only a handful of computer specialists with his capabilities.'' In his electronic activities, the 5-11, 240-pound Mitnick referred to himself as Condor, Black said. DiCicco said Mitnick named himself for Robert Redford's character's code name in the spy movie ``Three Days of the Condor.'' ``All he did was eat Fat Burgers, drink Slurpees and work on computers,'' DiCicco said. ``He was a big, fat slob of a guy who couldn't get through a day without breaking into a computer somewhere.'' Mitnick began his hacking career using telephones, authorities said. By age 13, he was under investigation by the police department, Pacific Bell telephone company and the Federal Communications Commission, the Los Angeles Daily News said Monday. ``Mitnick was a legend to the computer world by 1981,'' said John Christ, his high school computer teacher. In 1982, DiCicco said, he and Mitnick used USC's 24-hour student computer lab to get into many computers, including classified systems. ``Our favorite was the National Security Agency computer because it was supposed to be so confidential,'' DiCicco said. ``It was like a big playground once you got into it.''
<irrelevant> A former janitor serving a 35-year prison term for a murder that authorities now believe was committed by the so-called ``Southside Strangler'' was granted executive clemency Wednesday. David Vasquez' pardon was based in part on the recommendation of Arlington County Commonwealth's Attorney Helen Fahey, said Gov. Gerald L. Baliles. Vasquez, 42, pleaded guilty in 1985 to second-degree murder in the death of Washington lawyer Carolyn Jean Hamm of Arlington. Vasquez at first confessed to the killing, but recanted his confession and said he entered the guilty plea to avoid a possible capital murder conviction and death sentence. Vasquez has been imprisoned at Buckingham Correctional Center in Dillwyn. New evidence, a review of existing evidence, further investigation and analysis by the Arlington County Police Department and the FBI National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime convinced authorities that the crime was committed by Timothy Spencer, who has been convicted of capital murder in the deaths of Susan Tucker of Arlington and Debbie Davis of Richmond. Spencer's convictions were based on DNA tests, also known as ``genetic fingerprinting.'' In such tests, the molecular structure of body fluids and tissues from a crime scene are matched with those of the suspect. Like fingerprints, each structure is unique to the individual. After the murder of Ms. Tucker, Arlington police reconsidered whether Vasquez murdered Ms. Hamm. ``Every lead and available scientific process was pursued, and led to the conclusion that Spencer ... was responsible for the Hamm murder,'' a news release issued by the governor's office said. Ms. Fahey's request for a pardon was reviewed by the Virginia Parole Board, the Secretary of the Commonwealth's Office, the governor's executive staff and Baliles, the news release said. Vasquez received an ``absolute pardon,'' which restores his constitutional rights and leaves him without a criminal record. Ms. Fahey had predicted that Vasquez would receive a ``conditional pardon,'' which is similar to being paroled from prison.
<irrelevant> Car thefts dropped dramatically after the military drummed out hundreds of sticky-fingered troops, the country's constabulary chief said today. Maj. Gen. Ramon Montano said the rate of car thefts nationwide dropped from 6.6 per day in March to 1.5 per day in December. He linked the plunge to a ``no-nonsense'' campaign in which about 400 soldiers suspected of having links with car theft rings were dismissed. ``We eased them out, and of course the crimes decreased because of this,'' Montano said in a television interview. ``And I know that this policy of ours is a very big deterrent for others who may be prone to commit this crime.'' He said that the rate of serious offenses _ such as murder, rape and aggravated assault _ decreased from 17 incidents per 100,000 people in 1987 to 14 per 100,000 last year. However, total crime rate, including serious crimes, went up by 1.2 percent from 1987 to 1988, Montano said. He gave no comparative figures. ``We in the Philippine Constabulary are happy because the crime rate was controllable last year,'' Montano said. He said more police would help in their drive against criminals. ``This, together with getting rid of our own misfits and scalawags, and increasing our crime solution efficiency, we hope (would) increase the deterrent effect of our laws.''
<irrelevant> Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. said today he is not afraid of anything that might come out of the current investigation into whether he interfered with a police drug probe. Barry's telephone records, along with other city records, have been subpoenaed by the U.S. attorney's office in its investigation. ``I'm not afraid of anything that might come out of this,'' Barry said in an interview on WOL radio. Referring to investigations of several years ago by former U.S. Attorney Joseph DiGenova, Barry said DiGenova ``spent $30 million investigating my administration and very little came out of that.'' Barry, who denies having tried to disrupt the drug investigation, will be questioned about the matter, possibly this week, according to sources, who spoke on condition they not be identified. In a statement issued Wednesday, Barry said: ``We welcome this investigation. The district government will cooperate fully ... and will comply with any subpoenas the grand jury may issue.'' The Washington Post reported in today's editions that a federal grand jury has also subpoenaed thousands of documents relating to a joint D.C.-Virgin Islands personnel project. The former manager of the project, Charles Lewis, is a key figure in the current Barry case. Barry, who has faced repeated allegations of personal impropriety in his 10 years as mayor of the nation's capital, is facing his most serious political crisis yet following disclosures that he met last month with a man who was the subject of a city police drug investigation. Sources familiar with the investigation said the records sought by the U.S. attorney's office cover calls placed from the telephone in Barry's automobile, as well as calls placed in other ways that would generate a record. Those would include calls made through police and city switchboards. Barry has acknowledged calling the assistant police chief, Isaac Fulwood, who is supervising the investigation, but has said he was trying to speed up the probe and not influence its outcome. The records search involves any calls that may have been made around the time last month when Barry has acknowledged visiting a Washington hotel room occupied by Lewis. District of Columbia police called off an attempt to make an undercover purchase of drugs from Lewis after two detectives encountered one of the mayor's security guards while Barry was at the hotel, authorities have said. Police said a later search of the room, after Lewis checked out, found traces of cocaine, but there was no indication how long they had been there. Barry has denied any drug use but admitted ``poor judgment.'' Also sought in the federal investigation are records of calls by Chief of Police Maurice Turner and other city officials, including tape recordings of calls through the police dispatcher's phone system. U.S. Attorney Jay B. Stephens said last week that his office was conducting a full investigation of the allegations against Barry, including whether he used drugs or tried to hinder a police investigation. Meanwhile, the inspector general of the U.S. Interior Department is conducting a separate investigation into an agreement in which Barry and other D.C. officials were to provide consulting services to the Virgin Islands on personnel issues. Lewis was in charge of that agreement for the Virgin Islands government. Stephens, asked about the search for telephone records, said he could not comment on matters under investigation. Police department spokesman Shannon Cockett, spokeswoman for Turner, said, ``We will not comment while the U.S. attorney's office is investigating this matter.'' Barry, elected three times by large majorities, came up through the ranks of local civil rights leaders in the 1960s to become the mayor of the heavily black city in 1978. Barry, who is married, acknowledged last year he once had a ``personal'' relationship with a convicted cocaine dealer, Karen Johnson. He denied using drugs or purchasing them from her, however, and denied allegations she had been paid hush money to prevent her from talking to federal investigators. At the same time, Barry has sought to be a visible leader in the city's battle against drugs, appearing at anti-drug rallies with Jesse Jackson and police officials. The city recorded a record 371 homicides last year, more than half of which police said were drug related. Lewis has remained unavailable for comment since the Dec. 22 hotel incident, but sources say he has been in contact with federal investigators. He is a former city government official and a native of the Virgin Islands who was fired in April from his job as assistant to the governor of the Virgin Islands.
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. missed out on the personal computer boom, but it hopes a big product announcement next week will keep it abreast of the next wave in computing, desktop workstations. Officials of the world's second biggest computer maker said Wednesday they would introduce advanced workstations along with new software and industry-standard personal computers in a major news conference on Tuesday. ``It's probably the most significant desktop announcement we've ever made,'' Donald McInnis, vice president of Digital's engineering systems group, said in a telephone interview. Digital, the minicomputer giant based in Maynard, Mass., lost out on billions of dollars in potential revenue from personal computers because its founder and president, Kenneth Olsen, underestimated the importance of the machines. The company kept building bigger and more powerful clusters of minicomputers to compete with International Business Machines Corp., its bigger rival. Two previous attempts to catch up in the PC business failed: the Rainbow, which did not run industry-standard software, and the Vaxmate, which was too expensive. In its third attempt, Digital is showing some humility by selling personal computers made for it by Tandy Corp. according to Digital specifications. ``It's stating for the world that, `Yes, we're going to be in the low end of the market,''' said Sonny Monosson, editor of the Monosson Report on DEC and IBM. In the smaller but faster-growing workstation business, where Digital already has the second biggest share of the world market despite selling relatively slow machines, the company plans two lines of fast and relatively cheap entries that should expand its market share. Workstations are speedy desktop computers capable of displaying intricate graphics and are used primarily by scientists, engineers and other technical professionals. As a sign of the importance Digital attaches to workstations, the company will break from tradition by selling one line incapable of running programs written for its own Vax VMS operating system. The new line will run only programs written for Ultrix, Digital's version of the Unix operating system. For the new workstation, Digital had to choose between speed and compatibility, and it chose speed by using a microprocessor supplied by Mips Computer Systems Inc. that cannot handle VMS instructions. In the software area, Digital scored a major but little-noticed victory last week when the Open Software Foundation, a standards group, selected its technology as the standard for the means by which programs appear in ``windows'' on a computer screen. Technology from Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. was selected as the standard for the look and feel, or surface trimmings, of the screen presentation. The decision on standards should help simplify life for computer users and programmers. ``Until now we've had chaos and anarchy in terms of standards at the desktop,'' McInnis said. The emphasis on desktop computers is a return to Digital's roots. The company was founded in 1957 to build small computers better suited to individual users than the powerful but complicated mainframe computers dominant at the time. Analysts differed on how Digital's new workstations would fare against the competition of Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc. and others. ``They overtook and passed Apollo in '88. With this new line of products I think they're going to overtake Sun,'' said Jonathan Cohler, editor-in-chief of Digital Review, an independent weekly newspaper based in Boston. But Russell Crabs, an analyst for SoundView Financial Group in Stamford, Conn., said the high-powered workstation will not take off right away because there is not enough software written for Digital's Ultrix. ``I think it's a defensive move, primarily against Sun,'' he said. Digital will trumpet the new products in a press conference in Littleton, Mass., and other presentations that day and the next in Santa Clara, Calif.; London; Paris; Copenhagen, Denmark; Sydney, Australia; and Tokyo.
</top>
<top>
<num> 96
<title> Computer-Aided Medical Diagnosis
<relevant> When a hospital computer catches a virus, the results can be hazardous to patients' health, a doctor says. In a letter in today's New England Journal of Medicine, a radiologist described what happened when computers used for analyzing patients' nuclear scans were infected with two computer viruses. Computer viruses are devious pieces of computer code that move from machine to machine, often reproduce themselves and sometimes make computers sick. Although this time the infection was cured without lasting harm, Dr. Jack E. Juni said potential damage was serious. ``The information on these machines was the actual scans we were using to make diagnoses,'' he said in an interview. ``If the data had been lost, it would have affected the diagnoses of patients.'' One of the viruses was relatively benign, making copies of itself while leaving other information in the computer alone. However, the other virus inserted itself into programs and directories of patient information and made the machines malfunction. Juni, of William Beaumont Hospitals in Royal Oak, Mich., said about three-quarters of the programs stored in two Macintosh II personal computers were infected. He said he did not know the origin of the less harmful virus, but the more serious one apparently was on the hard disk of one of the computers when the hospital had bought it. A hard disk is the internal device used by computers to store programs and data. The virus spread from one computer to another when a doctor used a word processing program on both machines while writing a medical paper. Juni said the virus caused occasional random malfunctions. Sometimes the computers would freeze up or garble patients' names. The hospital had backup copies of patient records, and eventually purged the viruses from the computers. It has since instituted precautions in an effort to keep out viruses. Juni said the virus was on a hard disk manufactured by CMS Enhancements of Tustin, Calif. CMS spokesman Ted James said a virus was inadvertently put on 600 hard disks last October. The virus had contaminated a program used to prepare the hard disks for use. It apparently got into the company's plant on a hard disk that had been returned for servicing. James said that of the 600 virus-tainted disks, 200 were shipped t dealers, and four were sold to customers. However, he said, the virus was ``as harmless as it's possible to be.'' It inserted a small piece of extra computer code on hard disks but did not reproduce or tamper with other material on the disk. He said he did not think Juni's problems were caused by that virus.
<relevant> The medical curriculum Hopkins provided was marked not so much by innovation, as by combination of features that had appeared in Europe and scattered American schools. It started with ``a clean slate and a bunch of good ideas and good examples,'' said medical historian King. Of all the American schools that were trying to improve medical education, ``Hopkins went about it with the greatest enthusiasm and effectiveness.'' It was an ambitious enterprise, even apart from requiring a college degree for entry. Few other schools provided well-equipped laboratories in basic science for teachers and students. Hopkins aimed to stress medical research rather than just the passing on of existing knowledge. The idea was ``to give the world men who can not only sail by the old charts, but who can make new and better ones for the use of others,'' said John Shaw Billings, a Civil War battlefield surgeon who became a key architect of the medical school curriculum. Hopkins also made a policy of learning by doing, both in the laboratory and in the hospital. With Osler as their mentor at the bedside, students took medical histories of patients, performed physical examinations, conducted routine laboratory tests and followed their patients' course. As Osler put it, ``the student began with the patient, continued with the patient, ended his studies with the patient, using books and lectures as tools, means to an end.'' The school made full-time jobs out of teaching basic science, rather than using local physicians to teach part time, as most other schools did. The full-time idea, later extended to instructors of medical practice, allowed Hopkins to go outside the local community to lure top-notch faculty members. Eventually, the school also offered lengthy training in medical specialties to its students who had finished the four years of the regular curriculum. The result of all this was such that in 1901, Harvard's Eliot congratulated Hopkins University president Daniel Gilman on a ``prodigious advancement of medical teaching.'' Among all the changes in the nation of the previous 25 years, Eliot continued, ``there is none greater than that wrought in the development of medical teaching and research, and these men whom you, sir, summoned here have led the way.'' Who were those men? Most attention nowadays goes to the Big Four. One was Osler, who had come from Philadelphia to become professor of medicine at the school and physician-in-chief at the hospital. The author of a classic medical text, Osler became one of the nation's most highly regarded physicians. Joining him was William Halsted, a shy and excrutiatingly meticulous surgeon. He became well-known for such innovations as the radical mastectomy for breast cancer, and his training of other surgeons. Then there was William Welch, a genial, rotund pathology professor who became a power behind reforms in medical education and stimulated interest in medical philanthropy. Finally there was Howard Kelly, the gynecological surgeon, who developed and improved that art. He ``took pleasure in quick, flashy operating,'' one student wrote later. ``He'd be in and out of the abdomen almost before you knew it, all the time talking and illustrating what he was doing or about to do.'' Today, Kelly's operating table serves as a library table, its thick glass top chipped around the edges. Of the 17 original hospital buildings, only three remain, hemmed in by the modern boxy homes of the modern hospital and medical school. The old sitting room where Osler wrote his famous textbook is now split into cubicles by blue room dividers, part of an administrative office. The scene today at Hopkins would astonish the Big Four. Faint rock music nudges the quiet of a white-walled laboratory as Bert Vogelstein, 39, holds up a dark gray sheet of X-ray film. It shows several series of smudged black lines. During the days of the Big Four, physicians were just beginning to understand cancer as a disease of abnormal cells. Now, the smudged lines on Vogelstein's film are helping to explain those abnormalities. They represent an analysis of colon cancer tissue, suggesting that the tumors arose after normal cells lost protection from a gene that suppresses cancer. In a room crammed with computer display terminals, Elliot Fishman, 36, narrates a series of ghostly images. A skull tumbles end over end, revealing its inner detail. A hip bone sways in its pelvic socket like a pendulum. A dark blue liver rotates to reveal patches of cancer that look like popcorn. Halsted needed a scalpel to peer within patients like this; radiologist Fishman uses sophisticated scanning machines and computer power. The result is three-dimensional images of the body's interior that can be rotated or manipulated, helping surgeons plan operations well in advance. Victor McKusick, 67, arose shortly after 5 a.m. one recent day at his Baltimore home. He drank some coffee, read the paper, picked up a medical journal article and began to dictate into a small tape recorder. It was time to catalog a new human gene. When the Hopkins medical school was founded, the idea of genes was not yet generally accepted, for the work of Austrian monk Gregor Mendel in the 1860s was not yet widely known. Today, McKusick maintains a list of human genes, accessible by computer around the world. The entry he dictated before breakfast that morning was number 4,584. But while medicine has advanced greatly since Hopkins began, some things stay the same, notes Hopkins medical historian A. McGehee Harvey. A committee that reviewed the Hopkins medical curriculum recently endorsed the ideas of learning by doing, and of not only teaching medicine but also emphasizing the importance of creating new knowledge, Harvey said. ``It's a process of rediscovery,'' he said with a smile. ``They rediscovered all the principles that were here when the place started.''
<relevant> A computerized X-ray scanner developed to find defects in auto parts is giving medical researchers better glimpses of bone structure than conventional analysis methods can, and in less time. ``This new technology is allowing us to better understand the consequences of bone changes caused by disease or age,'' such as osteoporosis, said Steven Goldstein, director of the University of Michigan's orthopedic research lab. The microcomputer tomography scanner, or MicroCT, was developed in 1981 by Ford Motor Co. to find structural flaws in ceramic car parts. It yields three-dimensional images, which Goldstein is using to study trabecular bone _ a porous, spongy, shock-absorbing structure found near joints. Osteoporosis and other bone diseases affect trabecular bone first, and more extremely, than other bone. Osteoporosis, a common ailment among the elderly, occurs when bones become porous, brittle and slower to heal. By studying how trabecular bone changes during the course of the disease, Goldstein hopes to learn how to control the weakening. The MicroCT, in 15 minutes, takes 129 two-dimensional X-rays of a small bone sample from several angles. The data is fed to a computer that creates a three-dimensional image in less than three hours. The computerized bone reconstruction is faster than microscopic analysis, yields more details and lets researchers examine inner bone structure without having to slice up the specimen, he said. However, the MicroCT cannot be used on living patients, and is only used on bone specimens because it would burn soft tissue. A new computerized compact disc with the capacity of 1,350 floppy diskettes may mean affordable access to data once reserved only for those with mainframe computers and sizeable budgets, researchers say. FEDSTAT, the Compact Disc-Read Only Memory (CD-ROM) and the technology that makes it work are a venture of the University of Alabama, JVC Disc America Co. and U.S. Statistics Inc., a Virginia-based online data service. FEDSTAT contains some of the most widely used Census Bureau demographic and economic data. On the single disc are statistics about each city and county in the United States _ information about population, business and the economy. While some of the information has been available in printed form, some had been accessible only through magnetic tape processed by a mainframe computer. ``Never before has this much government data been available in an inexpensive, easily used format,'' said Philip Turner, dean of the graduate school of library service and director of the project for the university. The county business patterns files alone take up about 2{ feet of shelf space on paper, said U.S. Statistics President Warren Glimpse. The capacity can't be measured only in terms of its volume as found in other sources; ``this is a new approach to data,'' he said. ``The capacity to cross-tabulate, to create new data, is infinite with FEDSTAT.'' The disc contains 484 million characters. Retailing at $195, it is used on a CD-ROM player attached to a personal computer. The player costs about $500. Data range from population figures as specific as the number of children under 5 for any county in the nation to annual economic data by county for the past 20 years. Users also can prepare county maps selecting from thousands of subjects; compare counties, metropolitan areas, states, the nation and other countries; and develop forecasts based on historical data. The first orders for FEDSTAT have come from such organizations as the New York Public Library and the Library of Congress. Turner predicted that within two years, CD-ROM technology will be available at most university libraries, larger public libraries and 15 to 20 percent of school libraries. A new version of the first FEDSTAT disc will be produced each year, Glimpse said, with partial updates issued on additional discs throughout the year.
<relevant> Brain scans can reveal a shrinkage in some tissue that may be an early sign of Alzheimer's disease, even in people not yet diagnosed, a new study suggests. The shrinkage appeared more frequently in Alzheimer's patients and in people who were later diagnosed with the disease than in other people, researchers reported. If further research confirms the result, scanning for the abnormality may be useful as one step in diagnosing the disease, study co-author Mony DeLeon said Thursday. The work is reported in Saturday's issue of The Lancet, a British medical journal, by DeLeon and colleagues at the New York University Medical Center. Alzheimer's disease is a progressive condition that attacks the brain and impairs thinking, memory and behavior. It affects an estimated 2.5 million American adults. No cause or cure is known. Researchers used a procedure involving computerized tomography, an X-ray technique commonly called CT scanning, to study a portion of the brain called the hippocampus. They examined 76 patients with mild to severe Alzheimer's, 27 with minimal age-related memory changes, and 72 normal volunteers, all with an average age in their early 70's. Shrinkage in the hippocampus appeared in 87 percent of the Alzheimer's group and 70 percent of those with mild memory impairment, compared to 22 percent of the normal volunteers. Researchers also followed 20 patients with mild memory impairment and 28 healthy people of similar ages. By three years later, 11 of the subjects were diagnosed with Alzheimer's. Ten of them had shown shrinkage in the hippocampus in the initial examination. Of the 37 people not diagnosed with Alzheimer's by three years later, only seven had shown the hippocampus abnormality. Robert Terry of the University of California in San Diego said results suggest the abnormality may help in diagnosis of Alzheimer's, but because it also appears in normal people it cannot be used by itself. DeLeon said the people who were not diagnosed with Alzheimer's within three years may be at risk for developing outward symptoms later.
<relevant> A computer-enhanced X-ray technique could help doctors diagnose Alzheimer's disease and paranoid schizophrenia by allowing them, in effect, to look not just at the brain but at the mind, radiologists say. The technique, called SPECT, ``may turn out to be the single most important imaging method we have to diagnose Alzheimer's,'' Dr. Frederick J. Bonte said Monday at the 75th general assembly of the Radiological Society of North America. ``Traditional imaging methods such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance haven't been able to contribute much to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's, except to rule out other conditions that may cause Alzheimer's-like symptoms,'' he said. But SPECT actually gives images of the physiological processes in the brain, rather than merely the organ's structure, said Bonte, director of the Nuclear Medicine Research Center at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. Using SPECT, he and his co-workers accurately have identified about 150 of 170 dementia patients as victims of Alzheimer's, an incurable disease of aging that afflicts up to four million Americans. Alzheimer's causes memory lapses, confusion, loss of ability to function and eventually death, and often goes undiagnosed for two or three years because people wrongly attribute early symptoms to normal effects of aging. Though no treatment exists for the disease, SPECT could be valuable in separating treatable types of dementia that resemble Alzheimer's from actual Alzheimer's, Bonte said. Also, when researchers do devise treatments, SPECT could be used to monitor their effectiveness, he said. In SPECT, an acronym for single photon emission computed tomography, patients are injected with a radio-pharmaceutical, a chemical compound that emits a small amount of radiation. The chemical travels to the brain, where it settles into the tissues in direct proportion to the amount of blood flow in that area of the brain, Bonte said. ``Alzheimer's is characterized by abnormalites in brain blood flow,'' he said. ``Early in the disease, brain cells begin to die and this reduces the flow of blood in that portion of the brain. These areas show up very well with SPECT.'' SPECT scanning could become generally available within a year or two, he said. It takes less than four minutes to perform, and costs about $450, compared with $800 for a CAT scan and $1,000 for MRI, Bonte said. The technique uses a machine that would be affordable to most community hospitals and could be used for constructing images of organs besides the brain, he said. Dr. Theodore R. Simon, deputy chief of nuclear medicine at the Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., reported that SPECT also has proven useful in diagnosing or confirming diagnoses of paranoid schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders, such as depression. ``Until now, psychiatric diseases have been diagnosed subjectively, primarily through clinical observation of behavior,'' Simon said. ``SPECT provides an objective technique to view the physical evidence of schizophrenia in the brain and confirm the clinical diagnosis.'' Schizophrenia afflicts an estimated two to five of every 1,000 Americans, causing symptoms that may include impairment in thinking, delusions, hallucinations, changes in emotions and changes in behavior, according to the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill. Paranoid schizophrenia is a subtype of the disease characterized by feelings of persecution, or less commonly, grandiosity, according to the Arlington, Va.-based organization.
<irrelevant> Mike has lived twice as long as might have been expected when doctors diagnosed his AIDS. Dan Turner and Cristofer Shihar had one chance in five of seeing 1984. They don't know why they've survived what has been a death sentence for more than 45,000 Americans, but say it may be a matter of attitude. ``A lot of people don't die of the disease, they die because they give up,'' said Mike, a 34-year-old Chicagoan who was diagnosed with acquired immune deficienty syndrome in January 1984. He asked that his last name be withheld. According to Judith Wiker, a Chicago holistic therapist who says she has counseled hundreds of clients with AIDS or AIDS-related problems, Mike is one of many people with the disease who are well enough to feel and act normal. ``There are a lot of healthy people running around with AIDS,'' she said. Scientists are trying to determine just why some people have survived as long as 10 years with AIDS. The federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta is studying 119 people known to have lived with it for three or more years. ``Is the virus somehow different?'' asks Ann M. Hardy, a CDC epidemiologist now at the National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Md. ``Is it something in their immune system?'' Does survival time hinge on the mildness or severity of the infections that attack people with AIDS? Or could the key really be a ``lifestyle-psychosocial type of thing'' _ a positive attitude and emotional support? All of these possibilities are now being studied, either by the CDC or in studies funded by the National Institutes of Health. For the purposes of the CDC's 2-year-old study, long-term survivors were defined as people who lived at least three years after being diagnosed. Unlike the estimated hundreds of thousands of Americans who are infected with the AIDS virus but do not have symptoms, long-term survivors actually have battled one or more ailments that define acquired immune deficiency syndrome _ including Kaposi's sarcoma, pneumonia, damaged immune systems and severe weight loss. Most long-term survivors are white homosexual men in their 30s whose main or only symptom is Kaposi's sarcoma, the skin cancer that was rare before AIDS became an epidemic, CDC data indicates. ``The major issue people are interested in is what way the immune response for the long-term survivor is different than in the short-term survivor,'' said Dr. Henry Masur, deputy chief of critical care medicine at the the Clinical Center of the NIH in Bethesda, Md. ``With any disease, whether it's cancer or pneumonia, in a healthy person, some people get sick very quickly and die and other people survive much longer. With breast cancer or colon cancer, some people will be dead within a few months and some people will go for 30 years,'' Masur said. For Mike, an accountant, three years of chemotherapy kept the skin sores of Kaposi's sarcoma at bay. He then began treatment with the drug AZT, now called zidovudine, which prolongs the lives of many with AIDS. Mike, who considers himself ``fairly lucky,'' said his only current health problem is mild leg pain. ``I'm basically as normal as they get. Nobody would know, if they saw me on the street, that I had been diagnosed with AIDS.'' Turner, 42, of San Francisco, was diagnosed with Kaposi's in February 1982, before most Americans _ including doctors _ had heard of AIDS. ``I do believe one can live with AIDS and strike up a bargain and co-exist with the virus, as we do with other viruses,'' said Turner. He underwent chemotherapy, a year of acupuncture, took megadoses of Vitamin C for a while, has taken zidovudine intermittently since early 1988 and still gets alpha-interferon, a genetically engineered anti-cancer drug. ``I go to the gym regularly, and I try to maintain my weight and my energy level,'' said Turner, who writes and performs music. ``A friend and I have just finished writing a movie script, which we hope to sell.'' Shihar, 38, of Los Angeles, was diagnosed with Kaposi's in November 1982, and said he's done ``just about the opposite of all the recommended treatments'' but his illness went into remission anyway. ``I would love to say it was all very spiritual, but I was in remission before I became spiritual,'' said Shihar, who works for Northern Lights Alternatives, a New York-based education and support organization for people with AIDS. ``I think the one thing I hear from people I know who have survived is they're real stubborn.'' Ms. Wiker believes ``there is a certain kind of person that is a survivor with AIDS. That kind of personality is one that starts living in the moment, a person that is letting go of their past feelings and fears ... and they're letting go of future projections about death.'' That theory is being tested in a federally funded study at the New York State Psychiatric Institute, where 450 people infected with the AIDS virus are being tracked for five years to determine whether their emotional state influences their resistance to the illness. ``Most people would like to believe they have control over this, and if they remain optimistic and cheerful it will help,'' said Dr. Jack M. Gorman, associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and principal investigator in the study. ``And we certainly want to encourage people to remain optimistic and cheerful, but we don't really know if it makes a difference or not, and that's what we're trying to see,'' he added. Regardless of psychological factors, survival prospects continually improve in newly diagnosed AIDS cases, thanks to drug treatments such as zidovudine and an aerosol form of pentamidine, a medication that fights the rare type of pneumonia that has been highly fatal to AIDS patients. As recently as two years ago, 80 percent of people with AIDS were expected to die within 24 months, but that has changed dramatically, said Dr. Nathaniel Pier, a New York City physician with a large number of AIDS patients. The CDC says it can't currently estimate AIDS victims' average survival. ``As of November 1988, we can assist somebody to stay alive and healthy for two years, with the current therapy,'' Piers said. ``And a great deal may occur in two years. We've seen an enormous change from 1986 to 1988. ``Many people being diagnosed now may benefit from breakthroughs that will totally change the surface of the disease.''
<irrelevant> Mike has lived twice as long as might have been expected when doctors diagnosed his AIDS. Dan Turner and Cristofer Shihar had one chance in five of seeing 1984. They don't know why they've survived what has been a death sentence for more than 45,000 Americans, but say it may be a matter of attitude. ``A lot of people don't die of the disease, they die because they give up,'' said Mike, a 34-year-old Chicago accountant diagnosed with AIDS in January 1984. He asked that his last name be withheld. According to Judith Wiker, a Chicago holistic therapist who says she has counseled hundreds of clients with AIDS or AIDS-related problems, Mike is one of many people with the disease who are well enough to feel and act normal. Scientists are trying to determine just why some people have survived as long as 10 years with AIDS. The federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta is studying 119 people known to have lived with it for three or more years. The National Institutes of Health is funding other research. For the purposes of the CDC's 2-year-old study, long-term survivors were defined as people who lived at least three years after being diagnosed. Unlike the estimated hundreds of thousands of Americans who are infected with the AIDS virus but do not have symptoms, long-term AIDS survivors actually have battled one or more ailments that define AIDS _ including Kaposi's sarcoma, pneumonia, damaged immune systems and severe weight loss. Most are white homosexual men in their 30s whose main or only symptom is Kaposi's, the skin cancer that was rare before AIDS became an epidemic. For Mike, an accountant, three years of chemotherapy kept the skin sores of Kaposi's sarcoma at bay. He then began treatment with the drug AZT, now called zidovudine, which prolongs the lives of many with AIDS. Turner, 42, of San Francisco, was diagnosed with Kaposi's in February 1982, before most Americans had heard of AIDS. He underwent chemotherapy, a year of acupuncture, megadoses of Vitamin C, has taken zidovudine intermittently and still gets alpha-interferon, a genetically engineered anti-cancer drug. ``I think the one thing I hear from people I know who have survived is they're real stubborn,'' said Shihar, 38, who was diagnosed with Kaposi's in November 1982 and who works for Northern Lights Alternatives, a New York-based education and support organization for people with AIDS. Regardless of psychological factors, survival prospects continually improve in newly diagnosed cases. Even two years ago, 80 percent of people with AIDS were expected to die within 24 months, said Dr. Nathaniel Pier, a New York physician with a large number of AIDS patients. Clarisse, a calf with an electric heart, is one sign that political fighting over federal funding hasn't stopped researchers trying to develop a permanent replacement for as many as 400 diseased hearts a year. Clarisse got her heart Dec. 8, about eight months after the National Institutes of Health decided to suspend $20 million in contracts for research on a permanent artificial heart _ and six months after the NIH reversed itself. Dr. Claude Lenfant, director of the National Hearth, Lung and Blood Institute _ a part of the NIH _ questioned in May whether more than a decade of research would lead to a permanent heart that the body wouldn't reject. Under pressure from members of Congress, Lenfant said in July that the contracts would not be suspended. The five groups funded are Hershey Medical Center of Pennsylvania State University; the University of Utah; Abiomed Inc. of Danvers, Mass., working with the Texas Heart Institute of Houston; and Nimbus Co. of Rancho Cordova, Calif., working with the Cleveland Clinic. Researchers at Penn State and Utah have been working since the mid-1970s on electrical versions of the air-driven, or pneumatic, heart first implanted in Seattle dentist Barney Clark in December 1982 at the University of Utah. Recipients of air-driven hearts remain mostly bedridden in hospitals, linked by tubes to large compressors, unless they get human heart transplants. Recipients of the electric heart will be able to walk, exercise and even work. ``The advantage of these hearts is that you'll be able to put everything inside the patient's chest except the battery,'' said Gerson Rosenberg, assistant chief of Penn State's division of artifical organs. Because the devices must meet specific requirements, designs are similar. The Penn State device, which has the size and heft of a squared softball, has a 10-pound, rechargeable battery pack on a waist belt. A battery in the heart will let a recipient take off the external battery for up to 45 minutes. The device, designed to last about five years, probably will cost about the $80,000 to $100,000 that a heart transplant costs, Rosenberg said. Samuel Gruber wants to change the perception of sharks as prehistoric, and says the ocean-going killing machines have a complex immune system that could become an ``antibody factory'' for humans. Gruber, a University of Miami biological oceanographer, has been intrigued with sharks since an underwater encounter with a hammerhead in 1958. ``After 30 years of studying them, the most astonishing thing I've found about sharks is that they are so sophisticated. They have so many systems that are in higher animals, that if you didn't know better, you'd think that _ like the whales _ they evolved on land and went back to the sea.'' Gruber studies the lemon shark, unique because it can survive while motionless in the water, making observation easier. Among the oddities he has observed are its ``highly generalized but extremely powerful'' immune system. Products from shark immune systems have shown promise in treating diseases, including cancer, he said. ``They are not only able to make antibodies, they already have antibodies to many disease that they would never see or get, such as human smallpox.'' When attacked by a disease, sharks generate huge amounts of antibodies, making them a potential factory for helping humans fight diseases like AIDS or cancer, he said. ``If we could keep a number of sharks and raise antibodies, then each person could have his own shark, his own antibody factory.''
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. missed out on the personal computer boom, but it hopes a big product announcement next week will keep it abreast of the next wave in computing, desktop workstations. Officials of the world's second biggest computer maker said Wednesday they would introduce advanced workstations along with new software and industry-standard personal computers in a major news conference on Tuesday. ``It's probably the most significant desktop announcement we've ever made,'' Donald McInnis, vice president of Digital's engineering systems group, said in a telephone interview. Digital, the minicomputer giant based in Maynard, Mass., lost out on billions of dollars in potential revenue from personal computers because its founder and president, Kenneth Olsen, underestimated the importance of the machines. The company kept building bigger and more powerful clusters of minicomputers to compete with International Business Machines Corp., its bigger rival. Two previous attempts to catch up in the PC business failed: the Rainbow, which did not run industry-standard software, and the Vaxmate, which was too expensive. In its third attempt, Digital is showing some humility by selling personal computers made for it by Tandy Corp. according to Digital specifications. ``It's stating for the world that, `Yes, we're going to be in the low end of the market,''' said Sonny Monosson, editor of the Monosson Report on DEC and IBM. In the smaller but faster-growing workstation business, where Digital already has the second biggest share of the world market despite selling relatively slow machines, the company plans two lines of fast and relatively cheap entries that should expand its market share. Workstations are speedy desktop computers capable of displaying intricate graphics and are used primarily by scientists, engineers and other technical professionals. As a sign of the importance Digital attaches to workstations, the company will break from tradition by selling one line incapable of running programs written for its own Vax VMS operating system. The new line will run only programs written for Ultrix, Digital's version of the Unix operating system. For the new workstation, Digital had to choose between speed and compatibility, and it chose speed by using a microprocessor supplied by Mips Computer Systems Inc. that cannot handle VMS instructions. In the software area, Digital scored a major but little-noticed victory last week when the Open Software Foundation, a standards group, selected its technology as the standard for the means by which programs appear in ``windows'' on a computer screen. Technology from Microsoft Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. was selected as the standard for the look and feel, or surface trimmings, of the screen presentation. The decision on standards should help simplify life for computer users and programmers. ``Until now we've had chaos and anarchy in terms of standards at the desktop,'' McInnis said. The emphasis on desktop computers is a return to Digital's roots. The company was founded in 1957 to build small computers better suited to individual users than the powerful but complicated mainframe computers dominant at the time. Analysts differed on how Digital's new workstations would fare against the competition of Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc. and others. ``They overtook and passed Apollo in '88. With this new line of products I think they're going to overtake Sun,'' said Jonathan Cohler, editor-in-chief of Digital Review, an independent weekly newspaper based in Boston. But Russell Crabs, an analyst for SoundView Financial Group in Stamford, Conn., said the high-powered workstation will not take off right away because there is not enough software written for Digital's Ultrix. ``I think it's a defensive move, primarily against Sun,'' he said. Digital will trumpet the new products in a press conference in Littleton, Mass., and other presentations that day and the next in Santa Clara, Calif.; London; Paris; Copenhagen, Denmark; Sydney, Australia; and Tokyo.
<irrelevant> Digital Equipment Corp. rolled out a long-expected line of computer workstations and personal computers Tuesday, including the first high-powered machine that does not belong to its Vax line. Analysts said the most significant product was the DecStation 3100, a fast workstation for scientists, engineers and financial analysts that will compete with models from Sun Microsystems Inc., Apollo Computer Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and others. The DecStation 3100 is a breakthrough because of its speed and because it cannot run software written for Digital's Vax computer line. It runs a version of Unix, an industry-standard operating system. ``Up until this point they have maintained that the Vax architecture is the be-all and end-all of the computer world,'' said Gregory Cline, a senior analyst at the Yankee Group in Boston. ``I think it's a smart move,'' Cline said. The DecStation 3100, which Digital billed as ``the world's fastest desktop workstation,'' begins at $11,900. Cline and other analysts said Digital's leadership claim is probably valid, but said Digital could itself be leapfrogged soon by companies such as Sun. Digital also introduced a line of slower workstations that do run its Vax operating system and a line of industry-standard personal computers made to its design by Tandy Corp. However, the personal computers are not capable of using DEC Windows, so programs that run on the PCs will not look the same as programs running on other Digital computers.
<irrelevant> The Soviet Union says it will try to maintain its minuscule AIDS rate by screening foreigners for the deadly virus, even forcing mandatory tests of some visitors who cannot provide proper medical proof. Foreigners who want to stay in the country for three months or more will be subject to testing for the disease beginning next month, Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady I. Gerasimov said. ``Here, there cannot be any discrimination,'' Gerasimov said. ``We conduct tests of our own people and besides, statistics show the Soviet Union is sharply lagging behind other countries, say the United States, in the number of ill people (with AIDS). And we just don't want to catch up.'' The Soviets once regarded AIDS as a disease spawned by Western sexual depravity and drug use. One Soviet newspaper's account had even claimed the virus was the result of a U.S. biological warfare experiment gone haywire. Gerasimov said the regulations were introduced to supplement a 1987 decree of the Soviet Council of Ministers. That decree made it a crime to knowingly spread AIDS, punishable by up to eight years' imprisonment, and said anyone in the Soviet Union could be forced to take a test to determine whether they were carriers. According to Gerasimov, the new rules go into effect Feb. 1. Summarizing them at a news briefing Wednesday, he said: ``Foreigners coming into the Soviet Union for over three months, if they don't have certificates which would be mutually accepted by agreement, should be screened.'' As outlined by Gerasimov, the new regulations on testing for AIDS antibodies appear to exempt short-term tourists but to apply to all foreigners _ diplomats, students, business people and journalists _ who live in the Soviet Union. As of late 1988, Gerasimov said, AIDS testsof 17 million people in the Soviet Union had turned up 112 Soviets who carry the virus, as opposed to 334 foreigners residing in the country. Eight people have the disease, five foreigners and three Soviets, he said. ``We do not want this kind of import,'' Gerasimov said. ``I don't want to say foreigners are a risk group. But we don't take any chances.'' Gerasimov said a traveler who tests AIDS-positive may be asked to leave the country. ``People who try to avoid medical examination or treatment may be expelled from the Soviet Union, following a prosecutor's sanction,'' he said. Soviet doctors customarily use hypodermic needles that are then boiled to sterilize them for re-use, but Gerasimov told one inquiring foreign reporter: ``Don't worry, we'll do our best so that you will have single-use needles.'' Stephen Walker, U.S. vice consul in Moscow, said Gerasimov's announcement was the first indication he'd had from Soviet officials that U.S. residents in Moscow would have to prove they were AIDS-free. The U.S. community in Moscow numbers about 800, Walker said. Rick Kenney, public affairs specialist for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that since the autumn of 1987 AIDS has been on the list of contagious diseases which require a rejection of an application for a U.S. visa. Pravda reported Nov. 11 that the Soviet Union had concluded agreements with Britain, Denmark and its East bloc allies that require their nationals seeking to enter the Soviet Union to prove they are not AIDS carriers. It did not say whether the regulation was already in effect. Gerasimov said the ``overwhelming majority'' of foreigners diagnosed as AIDS carriers had left the Soviet Union. The state-run press has previously reported the departure of African students found to be infected with the virus. Last year, the official Tass news agency reported the first Soviet AIDS deaths: a 4-month-old baby from the Odessa region on the Black Sea, apparently infected by its mother, and a 29-year-old Leningrad prostitute. Acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims extremely susceptible to infections and cancer. It is spread most often through sexual contact, shared hypodermic needles, transfusion of infected blood and from pregnant women to their offspring.
</top>
<top>
<num> 97
<title> Fiber Optics Applications
<relevant> International Business Machines Corp. will buy 25 percent of a fiber-optics company owned by Corning Glass Works, the companies said Tuesday in a signal of the growing importance of fiber to the computing world. The value of the deal was not disclosed. PCO Inc., a 175-employee company based in the Chatsworth area of Los Angeles, specializes in devices that convert electronic signals to light and vice versa. Until now, fiber optics have been used mainly for long-distance telephone lines. IBM's investment signals the company's idea that the speed permitted by fiber optics will be useful in the computer field, spokesman Paul Bergevin said today. Corning, based in Corning, N.Y., made an additional investment in PCO and will keep a 65 percent interest in the company. The remaining 10 percent will be owned by PCO employees, founders and other individuals. Instead of using wires, computer users are beginning to connect clusters of personal computers and workstations with high-capacity fiber-optic cables, said John Kessler, president of Kessler Marketing Intelligence in Newport, R.I. ``That market grew about 100 percent between 1987 and 1988 and will continue very heavy growth over the next five years,'' Kessler said. A longer-range goal is to use fiber optics inside computers to connect chips, and even to use light signals on chips, but PCO is probably not well-equipped in that area, Kessler said.
<relevant> They find things in the dark. They check groceries, play concertos and perform eye surgery. They are faster than a speeding bullet and could do serious damage to a locomotive. Lasers have been the Superman of the electromagnetic spectrum ever since 1960, when 33-year-old Theodore H. Maiman of Hughes Aircraft Co. built the first one from a pink ruby. As they near their 30th anniversary, though, lasers have switched from comic-book novelties to necessities that preoccupy the technology giants of the United States, Europe and Japan. Lasers are not only in compact disc players and bar-code scanners at checkout counters, they are in the phone system, carrying long-distance calls over hair-thin glass fibers. Now, lasers are poised to take a quantum leap. Tiny devices called quantum lasers herald an era in which lasers will be more central to the technology underlying daily life. Experts say quantum lasers and their cousins, quantum transistors, could make possible supercomputers the size of baseballs, and television screens of unparalleled clarity that hang on the wall like a painting. ``Quantum devices are the wave of the future. Almost all of the research that goes on involves quantum effects in some way or another,'' said David V. Lang, director of the solid state electronics research lab at AT&amp;T Bell Labs. Lasers are what some scientists call a ``killer'' technology: Compact discs are killing vinyl records, for example, and nobody uses copper anymore for long-distance phone lines. To repeat a familiar story, the Japanese are putting the American-invented killer to use more effectively than Americans themselves are. Japan's dominance of mass-market electronics gives its companies unmatched expertise in making things small, cheap and reliable. For example, Japanese companies dominate the market for CD players, which use more lasers than any other product. ``It's a byproduct of the Japanese decision to invest in consumer electronics. They'll find an application and find the technology to solve it. I wish we did it here,'' said Henry Kressel, a venture capitalist at E.M. Warburg Pincus &amp; Co. Inc. in New York. Japan's twin towers of strength in lasers and semiconductors could allow it to build the first computers in which chips are connected by quantum laser beams instead of electricity. That worries companies like International Business Machines Corp., which is intensively studying quantum well lasers and quantum well transistors. At AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories, one of America's foremost laser research centers, Alan Huang is hoping to leapfrog the Japanese. But he admits the competition is tough: For an early model of his ``optical computer'' he had to use a diode laser he took from a Japanese-made CD player. A laser is a directed needle of light purified to one particular color, or wavelength. In contrast, ordinary light is a jumble of many wavelengths flying in all directions. ``Laser'' stands for light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. In a cascading effect, photons of light strike an energized material and stimulate the release of more photons in a synchronized pattern. The most powerful lasers, big enough for someone to walk inside, are being used to attempt to fuse the nuclei of atoms in flashes of energy a million times more intense than a nuclear blast. Sustained nuclear fusion could be a source of clean, plentiful and cheap electricity. At the other end of the scale are semiconductor diode lasers, no bigger than a grain of salt _ the kind used in compact disc players and the phone system. One exotic subspecies is the quantum laser. Scientists build quantum lasers by ``spray-painting'' atoms in a layer cake of incredibly thin layers, some of which have impurities added. The impure layers act like walls to trap electrons. Confining so many electrons and their receptors (``holes'') to a tiny space makes it easier to get a cascade of photons going, creating laser light. If a laser the size of a salt crystal were blown up to the size of the World Trade Center in New York, a quantum well would be about the thickness of a rug in an office, said Michael Ettenberg, director of the optoelectronics research lab at the David Sarnoff Research Center in Princeton, N.J. Quantum lasers are more precise and require less current, and their efficiency in converting electricity to light is unmatched. Spectra Diode Laboratories of San Jose, Calif., recently produced 55 watts of continuous wave power from a quantum laser, a record power output and power conversion efficiency for a semiconductor laser, president and chief executive Donald Scifres told The Associated Press this past week. Ophthalmic surgeons have used lasers since 1970 to weld detached retinas. Later came other medical uses like excising tumors and eliminating cataracts. Today, lasers snaked into the body on optical fibers clean arteries and destroy urinary-tract stones. Lasers are used to make pinholes in the nipples of baby bottles, study components of car exhaust and form the three-dimensional holograms used on credit cards _ and maybe someday dollar bills. The military has ``Star Wars'' designs for free-electron lasers and powerful X-ray lasers, which physicist Edward Teller has suggested could be triggered by a nuclear blast. Laser weapons would most likely be mounted in space: ``People tried to shoot laser beams through the sky and what they discovered was fog and rain,'' said William Bridges of California Institute of Technology. Quantum well lasers fill only one niche, but an important one. Their speed and efficiency makes them ideal for rapid-fire communication, initially for long-distance calls, later for links between neighboring computers and eventually for the links between chips in computers, said Robert Melcher, a laser expert for IBM in Zurich, Switzerland. ``I've been in the laser game for 25 years now,'' said one researcher, Ross A. McFarlane, of Hughes Research Laboratories in Malibu, Calif. ``That (quantum lasers) is where the future lies.''
<relevant> In a deal that would be worth $365 million, Williams Telecommunications Group Inc. announced Tuesday it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Lightnet, a Delaware-based fiber-optic network. Williams has a nationwide fiber-optic network that extends for about 6,400 route miles. Fiber-optic technology allows strands of optical glass as thin as hairs, encased in underground cables, to carry huge volumes of information via bursts of laser light. The transaction to acquire Lightnet's 4,500-mile fiber-optic system would link the company to nearly all major metropolitan areas in the country, said Williams President Roy Wilkens. Lightnet is owned by subsidiaries of Southern New England Telecommunications Corp. and CSX Corp. Completion of the transaction, scheduled by early April, is subject to government approval. Williams Telecommunications, about 84 percent owned by The Williams Companies, Inc., in the past three years has become one of the nation's leading telecommunications common carriers for long distance companies and the private networks of corporations and institutions. Lightnet's network serves 38 major cities including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Chicago, Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Tampa and Miami. Williams Telecommunications has primarily served the midwestern and western United States. The Williams Companies, Inc., also is engaged in the pipeline transmission of natural gas and petroleum products.
<relevant> The first fiber-optic cable across the Pacific Ocean went into service today, tying the United States and Japan together more tightly than ever before. The cable, no bigger than a garden hose, stretches 8,271 miles from California, through Hawaii, splitting in the western Pacific into legs that travel to Guam and Japan. Pacific Link vastly increases the capacity for communication across the Pacific, which is sometimes called the ocean of America's future. Instead of driving a golden spike, the builders of the $700 million cable marked its completion with a video teleconference between Japan and the boardroom of the New York Stock Exchange. ``The distance between the two countries has become shorter,'' Shiro Uramatsu, executive vice president of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said from the Japanese end of the hookup. ``We now have a new base, a new plateau'' for communications services, John Berndt, president of International Communications Services for American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., said in New York. The completion of Pacific Link comes just four months after completion of the first fiber-optic cable across the Atlantic, TAT-8, which was inaugurated with a video speech by author and futurist Isaac Asimov. Fiber links will now stretch most of the way around the world, competing with satellites for the business of carrying phone calls, computer traffic and video conferences. Satellites are still used for television. Unlike traditional copper cables, fiber-optic cables carry information in pulses of laser light. The single new cable will be able to carry 40,000 phone calls at a time across the Pacific, compared with less than 1,000 for the two copper cables already in service combined. AT&amp;T owns 35 percent of the cable. Kokusai Denshin Denwa, Japan's international phone company, owns 23 percent. There are 30 partners in all, including MCI Communications Corp. and US Sprint Communications Co., as well as phone companies in Australia, Brunei, Canada, France, West Germany, Hong Kong, South Korea, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, and Britain. Laying fiber across deep oceans required some special considerations. Surfers had to be moved aside at Hawaii's Makaha Beach to make room for a dinghy that brought the cable ashore. Sharks are attracted to the cables, so they had to be sheathed in steel to a depth of about 8,500 feet. That makes those sections about the thickness of a man's fist. The trans-Atlantic cable has suffered three partial outages in its brief life, two caused by damage from fishing trawlers on the French leg and one caused by an electrical short on the British leg, said AT&amp;T spokesman Rick Wallerstein. The Pacific Link leaves the West Coast at Point Arena, about 100 miles north of San Francisco. After its split in the western Pacific, the southern leg goes to Guam and the northern touches land in Chikura, Japan. Phone traffic between the United States and Japan is growing about 20 percent a year, Wallerstein said. Worldwide international phone traffic is growing about 15 percent a year, a figure that includes the Japan growth, he said.
<relevant> Patents, the guard dogs of innovation, are gaining strength and attention as America's first line of defense against purloined corporate ingenuity. An unprecedented number of applications are flooding the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which expects more than 156,000 this year, up 5 percent from last year. Courts are siding more often with holders of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and the phrase ``intellectual property'' has entered the lexicon of the emerging knowledge-based economy. Why all the interest? Because American industry, from steel to clothing to microwave ovens, is running scared. ``If you're the undisputed leader in some technology, patents are not that important because you pretty much call the shots. That's what it was like 30 years ago,'' said Michael Blommer, executive director of the American Intellectual Property Law Association. ``But today, the United States has lost its lead in almost every technology and patents are becoming much more important. That's really all you have to protect yourself.'' Some critics say the pendulum has swung too far toward protecting patent and copyright holders, stifling progress by preventing inventors from building on what has come before. Others say tough patent protection isn't helping the United States against technology leaders such as Japan and West Germany. Eight of the top 10 winners of U.S. patents last year were foreign companies. ``Isn't strengthening the patent system also strengthening the non-residents?'' asked Ogden Webster, director of Eastman Kodak Co.'s patent law department. One winner in the patent battlefield is Corning Inc., formerly known as Corning Glass Works, where engineers revolutionized communications in 1970 with their invention of optical fibers. These are hair-thin glass fibers that transport voices, pictures and data on pulses of laser light. Optical-fiber cables crisscross the country and the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Corning anticipated billions of dollars in revenue from its invention. However, other companies were eyeing the potential market, too. Six years after the invention, even before much of the world was convinced of the usefulness of Corning's creation, the company found itself trying to enforce its patents. Corning sued American, Dutch and Japanese competitors. It even sued the U.S. government for buying fiber from a competitor. From July 1976 until earlier this year, the company was immersed in patent enforcement lawsuits. The company won numerous settlements, but Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. of Japan remained a holdout. The Japanese company even built a factory in Research Triangle Park, N.C., to make fibers. Corning won a court order in October 1987 forcing Sumitomo to stop making optical fiber at its North Carolina plant. Sumitomo was allowed to make cable but had to get the fiber for it from a competitor. The damage portion of the patent infringement trial is pending. Today, Corning is the dominant producer. ``Corning is a believer in the patent system. It's very much a part of its research activity. To see it working is good,'' said Al Michaelsen, Corning's chief patent lawyer. The Corning experience is one that politicians and government officials like to hear. ``As we look to the future, our ability to compete successfully is going to depend on our brainpower, not our brawn,'' said Michael Kirk, assistant commissioner for external affairs at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A report by the U.S. International Trade Commission last year estimated U.S. companies lose between $43 billion and $61 billion a year because of inadequate foreign protection of intellectual property. Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand reportedly have begun to cleanse their reputations as piracy havens, but South Korea is still a major offender, the commission says. Companies must apply for patents in each country where they want protection. Rules differ. For instance, Italy refuses to grant patents to new drugs. Japan's patent office takes five years on average to issue a patent, vs. about 1{ years in the United States, says Donald J. Quigg, U.S. commissioner of patents and trademarks. An American inventor awaiting a patent in Japan has little legal protection and therefore is almost forced to share the technology with competitors through cross-licensing agreements, Quigg complains. It is much easier for Japanese companies to get patents in the United States. For example, Hitachi Ltd. won more U.S. patents last year than any American company. Kirk is helping negotiate minimum patent standards in trade talks involving 100 nations and said he is hopeful an agreement can be reached by the end of 1990. In this country, perhaps the biggest development came in 1982 with the creation of a federal appeals court in Washington devoted solely to intellectual property disputes. ``This court has really turned toward lowering the standard of patentability and upholding patents,'' said Kodak's Webster. He should know: The court rejected Kodak's appeal of a guilty verdict in a suit by Polaroid Corp. that forced it out of instant photography. By aggressively enforcing its patent rights, Texas Instruments Inc. earned almost as much in royalties in 1987 _ $191 million _ as it did from operations. Last year, royalties accounted for a quarter of its profits. Lotus Development Corp. and Apple Computer Inc. are facing criticism for heavy-handed protection of patents on the ``look and feel'' of their products, such as the Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet. To critics, patents protecting ``look and feel'' are the equivalent of a patent by General Motors Corp. protecting the arrangement of the steering wheel, brake and gas pedals on a car. Reflecting the turmoil, two-thirds of big companies in the United States, Canada and Europe are enmeshed in litigation over intellectual property rights, a Conference Board survey estimates.
<irrelevant> FCC Commissioner Patricia Diaz Dennis said Thursday the government must establish rules to assure that a ``cornucopia'' of video, voice and data material will flow into American households over high-technology telephone lines. Though Dennis expressed reservations about the ways telephone companies might compete in the cable television arena, she said it was time to end an era of ``television of scarcity'' in which a few companies offer a limited amount of programming. She said she looked forward to the day when Americans will have access to an unlimited number of two-way or ``interactive'' entertainment, educational and communications signals carried into their homes by lasers on telephone fiber optic cables. ``It is my job to think about what kind of networks we want for the future,'' she told a luncheon audience at Federal Communications Commmission headquarters. ``What kinds of demands are really ultimately going to be placed on a telephone network or cable system which starts providing two-way interactive (services)? And I don't think that we can seriously say it's going to be plain ol' voice (telephones) any longer.'' She said regulations must be structured ``so that this cornucopia of services will blossom _ just not video programming and video on demand but interactive services for educational purposes, medical purposes.'' The FCC voted tentatively last year to seek public comment on a possible recommendation that Congress allow telephone companies to enter the cable TV business, repealing laws that ban such entry. Dennis said it was important to make sure that telephone companies would not be able to use their enormous resources to squeeze cable operators out of the market, either through exclusive programming or by simply buying up the competition. Telephone companies should be required to build cable systems, and thus they would utilize the potential of fiber optics, she said. Also, if phone companies are allowed to provide their own programming, she said, they must be required to carry other companies' programs for reasonable fees. She advocated an approach in which cable programming ``stores'' would pay to have their products displayed in phone company ``shopping malls.'' ``We've got a store right now, and that store is operated by the cable company and they decide what products go in and where the shelf will be and who gets to be the providers of services within that store,'' she said. ``What I would like to see is just not another competing store with the telephone companies offering video services but perhaps a shopping mall opened up. That's what fiber really allows us to do because it has such high capacity. If the telephone companies come in as common carriers then lots of stores will be able to occupy space in that shopping mall and the consumer will be better off because then the consumer will have an abundance of choice,'' Dennis said. She said a major issue was whether or not the phone companies got to open their own ``store'' in the ``shopping mall'' and offer their products and programs over their telephone lines. She said if the phone companies operate the mall _ the phone lines _ ``and they've also got a store they might turn off the lights for everybody else and keep only their light on so that's the only one that the consumers would have access to.'' Another concern was cross-subsidization in which telephone companies would use telephone revenues to finance cable operations, or vice versa. She said telephone users shouldn't have to pay more. She said of Congress, ``If we can set the landscape and carefully structure it so that the twin evils of discrimination and cross-subsidization are avoided or are at least contained well, then they will listen. I`m hopeful that we will get a very good reception.''
<irrelevant> Weather is a greater threat to the nation's energy system than the possibility of terrorist attacks, an industry official told a Senate panel today. Utilities and the Department of Energy have initiated a security program to protect the nation's electrical distribution system, but ``skepticism was rampant'' among planners that a multi-site terrorist attack ever would be carried out against U.S. electric facilities, said Michael R. Gent, president of the North American Electric Reliability Council. He told the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee that the dependability and resilience of the nation's energy system ``has been amply demonstrated.'' Gent said hurricanes could cause more damage than terrorists, ``and we've shown we can handle hurricanes.'' Another witness before the committee, which was concluding two days of hearings on the vulnerability of U.S. telecommunications and energy resources to terrorism, said there had been 283 documented cases of sabotage against American energy systems since 1980. But Robert K. Mullen, a terrorism expert, said he saw no evidence of an increasing terrorist threat in the United States and that most previous acts of sabotage have been aimed at individuals who own or operate service stations or other retail facilities. ``Very little of what goes on with regard to energy sabotage in pre-industrial nations is comparable to what occurs in the United States,'' Mullen said in reference to increased sabotage activities in other parts of the world. ``There are no indicators of which I am aware...that would suggest to me the threat to energy assets here is substantially different from what the recent historical record indicates,'' Mullen said. In testimony Tuesday, the committee was told that the increasing high-tech nature of the U.S. telecommunications systems and a trend towards centralization of facilities was making the networks more vulnerable to terrorist attack. The government is ill-equipped to deal with such attacks, which could be carried out with conventional weapons, or even computers, by as few as a half-dozen assailants, a committee investigator said following a yearlong investigation. ``In many cases, the consequences appear to be manageable; in a few cases, the consequences are potentially catastrophic,'' Charles C. Lane, a committee investigator, told a committee hearing. The Associated Press this week reported that the Energy Department was quietly advising U.S. companies of a growing threat of terrorist attack on vital domestic energy facilities and that it was pressing them to fortify their defenses. An internal DOE report obtained by the AP said it was possible that potential Third World adversaries ``could sponsor attacks on the energy infrastructure in the U.S.'' It was learned that a special interagency task force has been created within the National Security Council to assess the vulnerability of U.S. energy systems and to study ways of minimizing the risk of supply disruptions caused by ``techno-terrorism.'' Lane said that while U.S. energy and telecommunications systems are robust and often redundant, they are vulnerable to multi-site terrorist attacks. And while the government is prepared to handle a major national security emergency, ``there are no programs designed specifically'' to deal with a telecommunications disaster. The committee hearings are being held to study how well the federal government and industry are organized to repel attacks and sustain and repair vital energy, telecommunications and transportation sources. John C. McDonald, who chaired a National Research Council committee that investigated the vulnerability of the nation's telecommunications system, told the committee that because long-distance networks rely upon ``a very limited number of signal transfer points, a few well-placed hand grenades would crash major portions of the domestic long-distance networks.'' But other witnesses were less alarmist about the effects of such attacks. Benham E. Morriss, deputy manager of the government's National Communications System, said he was ``not complacent'' about the dangers, but added: ``I think the statements that have been made are vastly overstated.'' Morriss acknowledged that the consequences today of communications disruptions can be much greater than in the past, ``But I don't think from a national security point of view we've gotten into a worse situation.'' Thomas A. Norman, representing the recently created National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, said the industry-government panel did not ``share the degree of concern'' of the other witnesses at the hearing. Norman said the trend to more diversity in the telecommunications industry is good for national security and that technology advances are ``making detection of troubles and restoration of our network even faster than ... in the old days.'' But McDonald said increasing dependence on new technology such as fiber optics and computer software and a trend towards centralization of facilities increases vulnerability. He said his committee recommended ``action to make critical network (facilities) more secure, reduce the concentration of network traffic and examine ways to provide more diversity in transmission facilities.'' He said the government also should establish additional emergency plans using simulated disaster and recovery scenarios and should try to determine means of protecting public networks from ``penetration by hostile users.'' McDonald said the government has excellent contingency plans for disasters that cause massive loss of life, but ``when it comes to the areas of economic disruption or social disruption, we feel that more needs to be done.'' Committee Chairman John Glenn, D-Ohio, said he didn't want the government to play ``Big Brother'' and saddle the industry with more rules. ``But if we see vulnerabilities creeping in, we can't afford to stay out of it ... if we're looking at the national security,'' Glenn said. Lane said an effort is essential ``to identify and initiate measures to harden networks to withstand assaults and to make plans to recover services lost as a result of successful attack.''
<irrelevant> Italy broke up a KGB spy ring seeking highly sophisticated military information, and a magistrate issued arrest warrants Monday for two Soviets and three others said to work for the ring, news reports said. Italian secret agents last week raided separate KGB rings in Trieste, an Adriatic port near the Yugoslav border, and La Spezia, on the northwest Ligurian coast, according to Italian newspapers and television. Investigators in Trieste said Monday that the spying operation foiled there could have seriously damaged Italy's defense capabilities. Authorities in Trieste last week arrested Giorgio Stancich, 42, an Italian electronics technician living in Yugoslavia near the Italian border. Stancich, who worked for a firm in Trieste that manufactures electronic communications systems, was arrested with documents related to a highly advanced electronic warfare system known as Catrin, the reports said. The project, still under development but considered one of the most sophisticated systems of its kind and destined for use by NATO, involves computer systems capable of directing an entire battle, including ground and air operations, according to the reports. In La Spezia, Investigating Magistrate Maria Cristina Failla issued five arrest warrants Monday, news reports said. Italy's ANSA and AGI news agencies said the warrants were for Natalino Francalanci, 51, a fur dealer from the Pisa area; a former carabinieri police officer; a former Soviet trade representative in Italy; another Soviet, and a Bulgarian. Of the group, only Francalanci has been apprehended, the reports said. Repeated calls to the prosecutor's office Monday went unanswered. Francalanci was accused of trying to procure secrets from Oto Melara, a La Spezia firm developing technology for fiber optics and producing carbon fiber plating for a new combat vehicle, news reports said. Newspapers said Italian agents posed as technicians in the La Spezia firm and provided Francalanci with documents to trace the spy ring. Newspaper accounts said agents in Vienna, Austria, masterminded the KGB network. In the first official comment on the case, Trieste magistrates said Stancich's arrest capped ``an extremely arduous and delicate investigation.'' ``The brilliant operation foiled the attempt to cause grave damage to the military defense system,'' said the written statement by Giovanni Virdis and Antonio de Niccolo. They gave no details, saying the investigation was continuing. Milan's Corriere Della Sera, without citing sources, said KGB agents and half a dozen Italians involved in the case fled Italy when they realized the ring was broken. It said the KGB agent who hired Stancich was a former Tass news agency correspondent in Rome. ANSA, quoting unidentified investigative sources, said at least 10 people were involved in the espionage network. The Soviet Embassy in Rome said Monday it never heard of the people arrested and that all Soviet diplomats and trade representatives in Italy ``worked only for the reciprocally advantageous development of cooperation between our two countries.''
<irrelevant> A federal appeals court Monday upheld a judgment against Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd., which was found to have infringed on two Corning Glass Works patents dealing with optical fibers. The ruling by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington affirms an October 1987 decision by U.S. District Judge William C. Conner, who decided all Sumitomo optical-waveguide fibers made or sold in the United States infringed on one or the other of two Corning patents. Payment of damages and other relief to Corning will be determined in a separate proceeding by the district court. Optical fibers are hair-thin strands of glass used to transmit information by light. They are used extensively in long-distance telephone lines. ``We believe this confirms the significance of the contribution that Corning has made to this technology,'' said Corning's Jan H. Suwinski. ``Furthermore, the decision should be well-received by every company that invests to create new technology.'' Sumitomo vice president Bob Swirbul said the decision in the appeal was disappointing to the company and ``different from our expectations.'' The company has been prohibited since 1987 from manufacturing or selling optical fiber strands but is allowed to sell fiber optic cable, which contains many strands, Swirbul said. As such, he said, ``our current activities in our (fiber-optic) division ... will not be affected'' by the judgment. Sumitomo's fiber-optic operations, which accounted for about 10 percent of U.S. demand in 1987, are located in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
<irrelevant> In a move that may test the limits of federal regulation of the telephone industry, Pacific Telesis Group hopes to become the first of the old Bell System companies to buy into cable TV. The nation's cable system operators vow to fight Pacific's plans, fearing that the phone companies' far greater financial resources will muscle aside competition and concerned that telephone companies may, if allowed by the federal government to buy in, be able within a few years to provide phone and television service through a single cable. The initial battleground is Chicago. Pacific announced last month it intends to buy an interest _ worth more than $100 million _ in a system serving 97,000 homes in the Windy City. Before that can happen, though, Pacific must win approval from the Federal Communications Commission and from the federal judge who oversees operations of the seven regional telephone companies that were created with the breakup of the Bell System in 1984. The seven ``Baby Bells'' have been barred by U.S. Districe Judge Harold Greene from generating information services, including cable TV programming, out of fear they could use their vast financial resources to compete unfairly. But the regional companies, including Pacific, are allowed to enter the cable television business outside their telephone service areas if they can show they will not use their monopoly powers to impede competition in the cable market they enter. Pacific announced April 20 it had reached a tentative agreement to buy, through a series of transactions, a 68 percent interest in the Chicago system. Now owned by Group W, the system would be purchased for $198 million by an affiliate of Prime Cable of Austin, Texas. Prime would operate the system, which serves 97,000 customers in a franchise area of 410,000 homes. One telecommunications industry analyst, Berge Ayvazian of Boston's Yankee Group, said the Chicago deal had been ``very carefully structured ... to test the limits'' of Greene's restrictions on the Baby Bells' operatons. ``This is a breakthrough for them if they get away with it,'' he added. The Justice Department has already approved Pacific's plans. The company intends to ask Greene for a waiver this summer. The Bell companies, particularly Pacific, have been pecking away at the fringes of the cable business while hoping that someday they will be free to compete fully in cable TV. Pacific must persuade Greene that a waiver would not impede the operations and profit potential of other Chicago cable systems. ``They stand a pretty good chance of getting the waiver,'' said Henry Geller, a former Federal Communications Commission official and director of Duke University's Center for Public Policy Research. ``They're clearly going to argue ... they don't have a monopoly in Chicago.'' An association representing cable operators will argue before Greene that granting Pacific a waiver would substantially undercut his 1984 decree. ``We support the consent decree, which is premised on justifiable fears of telephone companies using their huge monopoly phone business to cross-subsidize (cable operations) and otherwise impede competiton,'' said James Mooney, president of the National Cable Television Association, an industry trade group. ``One of the (Baby Bells) has a gross revenue base that is as large as the entire cable television industry,'' said Stephen Effros, president of the Community Antenna Television Association, another cable operators' trade group. Besides concerns that the phone companies' very size could radically alter their industry, cable operators fear that the fiber-optic cables being installed by phone companies to replace copper wires could one day eliminate the need for a separate cable to deliver television signals to customers. Telephone companies are replacing thousands of miles of wire each year with fiber cables, those pencil-thin bundles of glass strands capable of transmitting enormous amounts of information on beams of laser light. If extended directly to customers' homes, a single fiber-optic cable could at the same time carry television signals, telephone calls and computer data. Southwestern Bell and Sammons Cable are testing new cable technology in the Fort Worth, Texas, area, and the FCC last week allowed a non-Bell company, General Telephone of California, to construct a system using both conventional coaxial cable, made of copper, and fiber-optic cable in Cerritos, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb that also gets its phone service from the GTE subsidiary. Cable industry critics say that it will cost telephone companies $500 billion to completely convert to fiber optics and that selling TV programming would be a fine way to make up the expense. Raymond W. Smith of Bell Atlantic, another of the Baby Bells, told broadcasters last week in Las Vegas that only by allowing telephone companies to provide video programming will a full fiber optic network _ with the cables extending to individual homes _ be completed in this century. ``In my view, only one factor could accelerate this timetable dramatically _ allowing telephone companies to cover the costs of fiber-to-the-home with revenues'' from a range of services, including television transmission. Many in Congress and at the FCC think it is time to unleash the telephone companies to compete in the information service and telecommunications equipment-manufacturing businesses. Members of Congress concerned about such things, such as Reps. John Dingell, D-Mich.; Al Swift, D-Wash., and Tom Tauke, R-Iowa, want to relieve Greene of his oversight of the Bell companies. Last month, they introduced legislation to lift those two restraints on the Bell companies. While the bill would not let the Bell companies into cable TV, there is a growing feeling that the existing cable TV industry could stand a little competition. FCC Commissioner Patricia Diaz Dennis has said repeatedly that the federal government should now establish rules to assure that fiber-optic phone lines carry a ``cornucopia'' of voice, video and data into the nation's homes. The FCC began relaxing its restrictions on phone companies' entry into cable television last July, when it voted to consider recommending to Congress that the companies be allowed into cable TV even in the regions where they provide phone service. The commission also suggested it would try to encourge telephone companies to enter cable TV if Congress fails to act by broadly defining ``good cause'' for waivers from its existing regulations. The FCC said it probably would grant waivers if telephone companies wire homes with fiber and allow competitors to use those cables to sell video programs too. With this writing on the wall, many cable TV executives are looking to involve telephone companies as partners in cable systems outside telephone company service areas. ``There'a major split within the cable industry on that issue,'' Effros said. ``Frankly, I don't think many cable operators would disagree that we could live with telephone companies'' outside their service areas. ``Their money is as green as anyone else's and the amounts of money needed to continually improve cable TV ... is massive, so it would be nice to get a new influx of money,'' Effros said.
</top>
<top>
<num> 98
<title> Fiber Optics Equipment Manufacturers
<relevant> International Business Machines Corp. will buy 25 percent of a fiber-optics company owned by Corning Glass Works, the companies said Tuesday in a signal of the growing importance of fiber to the computing world. The value of the deal was not disclosed. PCO Inc., a 175-employee company based in the Chatsworth area of Los Angeles, specializes in devices that convert electronic signals to light and vice versa. Until now, fiber optics have been used mainly for long-distance telephone lines. IBM's investment signals the company's idea that the speed permitted by fiber optics will be useful in the computer field, spokesman Paul Bergevin said today. Corning, based in Corning, N.Y., made an additional investment in PCO and will keep a 65 percent interest in the company. The remaining 10 percent will be owned by PCO employees, founders and other individuals. Instead of using wires, computer users are beginning to connect clusters of personal computers and workstations with high-capacity fiber-optic cables, said John Kessler, president of Kessler Marketing Intelligence in Newport, R.I. ``That market grew about 100 percent between 1987 and 1988 and will continue very heavy growth over the next five years,'' Kessler said. A longer-range goal is to use fiber optics inside computers to connect chips, and even to use light signals on chips, but PCO is probably not well-equipped in that area, Kessler said.
<relevant> Italy broke up a KGB spy ring seeking highly sophisticated military information, and a magistrate issued arrest warrants Monday for two Soviets and three others said to work for the ring, news reports said. Italian secret agents last week raided separate KGB rings in Trieste, an Adriatic port near the Yugoslav border, and La Spezia, on the northwest Ligurian coast, according to Italian newspapers and television. Investigators in Trieste said Monday that the spying operation foiled there could have seriously damaged Italy's defense capabilities. Authorities in Trieste last week arrested Giorgio Stancich, 42, an Italian electronics technician living in Yugoslavia near the Italian border. Stancich, who worked for a firm in Trieste that manufactures electronic communications systems, was arrested with documents related to a highly advanced electronic warfare system known as Catrin, the reports said. The project, still under development but considered one of the most sophisticated systems of its kind and destined for use by NATO, involves computer systems capable of directing an entire battle, including ground and air operations, according to the reports. In La Spezia, Investigating Magistrate Maria Cristina Failla issued five arrest warrants Monday, news reports said. Italy's ANSA and AGI news agencies said the warrants were for Natalino Francalanci, 51, a fur dealer from the Pisa area; a former carabinieri police officer; a former Soviet trade representative in Italy; another Soviet, and a Bulgarian. Of the group, only Francalanci has been apprehended, the reports said. Repeated calls to the prosecutor's office Monday went unanswered. Francalanci was accused of trying to procure secrets from Oto Melara, a La Spezia firm developing technology for fiber optics and producing carbon fiber plating for a new combat vehicle, news reports said. Newspapers said Italian agents posed as technicians in the La Spezia firm and provided Francalanci with documents to trace the spy ring. Newspaper accounts said agents in Vienna, Austria, masterminded the KGB network. In the first official comment on the case, Trieste magistrates said Stancich's arrest capped ``an extremely arduous and delicate investigation.'' ``The brilliant operation foiled the attempt to cause grave damage to the military defense system,'' said the written statement by Giovanni Virdis and Antonio de Niccolo. They gave no details, saying the investigation was continuing. Milan's Corriere Della Sera, without citing sources, said KGB agents and half a dozen Italians involved in the case fled Italy when they realized the ring was broken. It said the KGB agent who hired Stancich was a former Tass news agency correspondent in Rome. ANSA, quoting unidentified investigative sources, said at least 10 people were involved in the espionage network. The Soviet Embassy in Rome said Monday it never heard of the people arrested and that all Soviet diplomats and trade representatives in Italy ``worked only for the reciprocally advantageous development of cooperation between our two countries.''
<relevant> A federal appeals court Monday upheld a judgment against Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd., which was found to have infringed on two Corning Glass Works patents dealing with optical fibers. The ruling by the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals in Washington affirms an October 1987 decision by U.S. District Judge William C. Conner, who decided all Sumitomo optical-waveguide fibers made or sold in the United States infringed on one or the other of two Corning patents. Payment of damages and other relief to Corning will be determined in a separate proceeding by the district court. Optical fibers are hair-thin strands of glass used to transmit information by light. They are used extensively in long-distance telephone lines. ``We believe this confirms the significance of the contribution that Corning has made to this technology,'' said Corning's Jan H. Suwinski. ``Furthermore, the decision should be well-received by every company that invests to create new technology.'' Sumitomo vice president Bob Swirbul said the decision in the appeal was disappointing to the company and ``different from our expectations.'' The company has been prohibited since 1987 from manufacturing or selling optical fiber strands but is allowed to sell fiber optic cable, which contains many strands, Swirbul said. As such, he said, ``our current activities in our (fiber-optic) division ... will not be affected'' by the judgment. Sumitomo's fiber-optic operations, which accounted for about 10 percent of U.S. demand in 1987, are located in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
<relevant> The US Sprint Communications Co. is expected to sign an agreement to buy a major stake in a trans-Atlantic cable that could boost its international telecommunications business, a trade publication said this week. The trade journal, TelecommunicationsWeek, said an agreement would be signed early this month under which US Sprint would acquire Private Transatlantic Telecommunications System Inc. of McLean, Va. The trade journal did not disclose the financial terms of the proposed acquisition. Private Transatlantic is installing a trans-Atlantic fiber optic cable in a joint venture with Cable &amp; Wireless PLC of London, a long-distance company. Each company owns half of the venture. Officials at US Sprint, based in Kansas City, declined to comment on the report. US Sprint is the country's third-largest long-distance telephone company. Paul Woodrow, a spokesman for Cable &amp; Wireless in London, said his company had been talking with several big companies about selling a stake. He declined to identify the companies. About half of US Sprint's overseas calls are transmitted on a trans-Atlantic analog, or copper wire, cable. The rest are transmitted by satellite. Fiber optic cables transmit calls digitally by using impulses of light. Analog transmission, an older technology, is more subject to distortion. Analysts said that in addition to using the new cable system for its own calls, US Sprint could lease transmission services to other long-distance companies. ``If the deal is completed as rumored, it would be a very positive event for US Sprint,'' said Joel Gross, an analyst with the Donaldson, Lufkin &amp; Jenrette Securities Corp. in New York. ``Not only would it make the company money, but it would give them much better access within the European Community, which is important, because international long-distance telephone service is growing about 24 percent a year, more than double the domestic rate,'' Gross said.
<relevant> The Federal Communications Commission on Wednesday gave General Telephone Co. of California permission to build a coaxial cable TV system and permission to test a state-of-the-art fiber-optic system that will allow customers to order movies every 15 minutes by phone. The ruling, which was watched closely by cable TV operators who fear entry of huge telephone companies into their turf, affirmed a preliminary decision last year to let General Telephone build and operate the coaxial (bundled copper wire) cable system in the Los Angeles suburb of Cerritos. GTE of California also provides phone service to Cerritos. The FCC said there had been no adequate bids submitted to the city of Cerritos for cable service except from General Telephone. GTE is leasing the system to Apollo CableVision to provide programming. A GTE affiliate, GTE Services Corp., will install a fiber-optic cable network to experiment with services such as near-video on demand, which will allow customers to phone in orders for movies that will be running on 30 channels. Some movies will begin every 15 minutes. Wednesday's decision was challenged immediately by the National Cable Television Association, which said it appears to violate federal rules generally barring telephone companies from the cable TV business. Current rules bar phone companies from generating cable programming in the same areas where they provide telephone service. Federal rules also bar the seven regional Bell operating companies from owning cable services anywhere in the country, but allow companies like GTE to do so outside their service areas. The FCC in July 1988 preliminarily voted to consider recommending to Congress that telephone companies be allowed into cable TV in the regions they serve. The FCC also suggested it would try to encourge telephone companies to enter cable TV, even if Congress fails to act, by broadly defining ``good cause'' for waivers. The FCC said it probably would grant waivers if telephone companies wire homes with fiber and allow competitors to use those wires to sell video programs too. FCC Chairman Dennis Patrick said Wednesday's ruling did not presage any final FCC judgment on the cable-telephone company issue. ``This grant of this very limited waiver may produce very valuable information that will be useful to the commssion and the Congress in evaluating that more generic question,'' he said. ``The precedent that results is narrow.''
<irrelevant> Co-workers probably tumbled in laughter when someone not too long ago adjusted his tie, stood up in the boardroom and said with a straight face, ``I predict people will actually pay real money to watch fake wrestling on television.'' But the idea was so crazy it was brilliant. In today's expanding universe of pay-per-view television, no programming concoction is too outrageous for those addicted viewers cruising for a new video fix. With pay-per-view, cable television subscribers can wolf down a buffet of television ``events'' _ including movies, concerts, boxing and more than enough wrestling _ without winching themselves off the sofa. Seats are front-row and, best of all, there are usually no stupid commercials. Car-race fanatics with $13 to spare can see the Miller High Life 500 on June 17 with no breaks in the action. Stir-crazy businessmen, taking shelter in some Holiday Inn, can fork over $7 for a private television broadcast of a soft-core porno movie. Thousands of viewers are expected to shell out 15 bucks in April to watch Evel Knievel's son go motorcycle jumping. And in 1992, NBC will offer up to 200 hours of selected Summer Olympic events on a pay-per-view basis, the network announced Dec. 22. With so many options, there's a heap of money coming through the door. Pay-per-view will become a billion-dollar industry within 10 years, up from less than $100 million in 1988, according to industry estimates. ``It's completely convenient,'' said Jerry Hartman, vice president of marketing and sales for Universal Pay TV. ``At eight o'clock, if you're bored, you can watch something. You don't have to get up. You don't have to go to the video store or anywhere else.'' In theory, the pay-per-view process is simple enough: you order ``Good Morning, Vietnam'' at 7 p.m., it arrives de-scrambled on your television set an hour later, and the movie's charged on your next bill. In practice, however, it can be a more frustrating experience. While most of today's pay-per-view transactions (from $5 to $40) are conducted over the phone, future technologies may streamline the process to a single remote control. Optical-fiber ``video-on-demand'' cable systems, now being tested in Southern California by GTE Corp., will supply hundreds more titles at any time in the day. For pay-per-view companies, the easier the transaction, the brighter the future. Parents, beware. Pay-per-view caters to the same impulsive buyers who grab cheap pens and eyeglass nose cushions at supermarket checkouts _ never realizing they could probably do without until it's too late. With pay-per-view, though, there's the added chance that, just once, the purchase could be electrifying. About 600,000 fans optimistically coughed up $35 per home to watch last June's ``fight'' between Mike Tyson and Michael Spinks, which ended abruptly after 91 seconds. The Nov. 7 title match between Sugar Ray Leonard and Donny Lalonde brought in close to $20 million in pay-per-view grosses, just behind the Tyson-Spinks receipts. ``I think people love the excitement of a big championship fight,'' said Jeffrey Reiss, chairman of pay-per-view giant Request Television. ``You can have a group of people over to the house for the price of one ticket ... and have a beer and popcorn party.'' Nielsen ratings that would make network programmers scribble out suicide notes can be solid gold on pay-per-view, due to higher profit margins. ``We can make money on one rating point,'' said Scott Kurnit, president of Showtime Event Television. Although pay-per-view has been workable throughout the 1980s, only 21 percent of the country's 45 million cable households now have equipment permitting phone orders. That figure may double by 1990, and 40 million homes may have access to pay-per-view by 1994, according to estimates by Paul Kagan Associates, a media research firm. Yet the long-touted promise of pay-per-view has been slow in arriving, stalled by poor marketing, film-studio fears and technological obstacles. Cable television's reputation for poor customer service hasn't encouraged subscribers to experiment with a more complicated product. ``There's still a long way to go in consumer marketing,'' said Tim Clott, executive vice president of the video division at Paramount Pictures. ``And we want to find a technology that prohibits home taping.'' The studios don't want pay-per-view broadcasts to undermine the $2 billion home video market. Worried that pay-per-view customers will videotape their purchases, the studios typically offer movies to pay-per-view systems more than a month after their home-video debut, thereby dulling the excitement. Meanwhile, pay-per-view program options continue expanding. Robbie Knievel, Evel's son, will try to hurdle the Caesar's Palace fountains on April 14. ABC, CBS and NBC won't have it, but you can see the leap (or crash) on Showtime Event Television. On Feb. 10, Request Television will carry a taped concert of Frank Sinatra, Liza Minelli and Sammy Davis Jr., at $14.95. Leaders in the pay-per-view business are predicting that Broadway openings, more pop music concerts, art auctions, business seminars and possibly the Super Bowl and the World Series soon could become pay-per-view staples. So, in the end, pay-per-view's future may lie in giving customers those unusual attractions they can't find at theaters, in video stores, or on any other broadcast or cable television channel. Said Showtime's Kurnit: ``We've always looked at the event business as where we'll make our money.'' What the word ``event'' comes to mean, though, is anybody's guess.
<irrelevant> FCC Commissioner Patricia Diaz Dennis said Thursday the government must establish rules to assure that a ``cornucopia'' of video, voice and data material will flow into American households over high-technology telephone lines. Though Dennis expressed reservations about the ways telephone companies might compete in the cable television arena, she said it was time to end an era of ``television of scarcity'' in which a few companies offer a limited amount of programming. She said she looked forward to the day when Americans will have access to an unlimited number of two-way or ``interactive'' entertainment, educational and communications signals carried into their homes by lasers on telephone fiber optic cables. ``It is my job to think about what kind of networks we want for the future,'' she told a luncheon audience at Federal Communications Commmission headquarters. ``What kinds of demands are really ultimately going to be placed on a telephone network or cable system which starts providing two-way interactive (services)? And I don't think that we can seriously say it's going to be plain ol' voice (telephones) any longer.'' She said regulations must be structured ``so that this cornucopia of services will blossom _ just not video programming and video on demand but interactive services for educational purposes, medical purposes.'' The FCC voted tentatively last year to seek public comment on a possible recommendation that Congress allow telephone companies to enter the cable TV business, repealing laws that ban such entry. Dennis said it was important to make sure that telephone companies would not be able to use their enormous resources to squeeze cable operators out of the market, either through exclusive programming or by simply buying up the competition. Telephone companies should be required to build cable systems, and thus they would utilize the potential of fiber optics, she said. Also, if phone companies are allowed to provide their own programming, she said, they must be required to carry other companies' programs for reasonable fees. She advocated an approach in which cable programming ``stores'' would pay to have their products displayed in phone company ``shopping malls.'' ``We've got a store right now, and that store is operated by the cable company and they decide what products go in and where the shelf will be and who gets to be the providers of services within that store,'' she said. ``What I would like to see is just not another competing store with the telephone companies offering video services but perhaps a shopping mall opened up. That's what fiber really allows us to do because it has such high capacity. If the telephone companies come in as common carriers then lots of stores will be able to occupy space in that shopping mall and the consumer will be better off because then the consumer will have an abundance of choice,'' Dennis said. She said a major issue was whether or not the phone companies got to open their own ``store'' in the ``shopping mall'' and offer their products and programs over their telephone lines. She said if the phone companies operate the mall _ the phone lines _ ``and they've also got a store they might turn off the lights for everybody else and keep only their light on so that's the only one that the consumers would have access to.'' Another concern was cross-subsidization in which telephone companies would use telephone revenues to finance cable operations, or vice versa. She said telephone users shouldn't have to pay more. She said of Congress, ``If we can set the landscape and carefully structure it so that the twin evils of discrimination and cross-subsidization are avoided or are at least contained well, then they will listen. I`m hopeful that we will get a very good reception.''
<irrelevant> Co-workers probably tumbled in laughter when someone not too long ago adjusted his tie, stood up in the boardroom and said with a straight face, ``I predict people will actually pay real money to watch fake wrestling on television.'' But the idea was so crazy it was brilliant. In today's expanding universe of pay-per-view television, no programming concoction is too outrageous for those addicted viewers cruising for a new video fix. With pay-per-view, cable television subscribers can wolf down a buffet of television ``events'' _ including movies, concerts, boxing and more than enough wrestling _ without winching themselves off the sofa. Seats are front-row and, best of all, there are usually no stupid commercials. Car-race fanatics with $13 to spare can see the Miller High Life 500 on June 17 with no breaks in the action. Stir-crazy businessmen, taking shelter in some Holiday Inn, can fork over $7 for a private television broadcast of a soft-core porno movie. Thousands of viewers are expected to shell out 15 bucks in April to watch Evel Knievel's son go motorcycle jumping. And in 1992, NBC will offer up to 200 hours of selected Summer Olympic events on a pay-per-view basis, the network announced Dec. 22. With so many options, there's a heap of money coming through the door. Pay-per-view will become a billion-dollar industry within 10 years, up from less than $100 million in 1988, according to industry estimates. ``It's completely convenient,'' said Jerry Hartman, vice president of marketing and sales for Universal Pay TV. ``At eight o'clock, if you're bored, you can watch something. You don't have to get up. You don't have to go to the video store or anywhere else.'' In theory, the pay-per-view process is simple enough: you order ``Good Morning, Vietnam'' at 7 p.m., it arrives de-scrambled on your television set an hour later, and the movie's charged on your next bill. In practice, however, it can be a more frustrating experience. While most of today's pay-per-view transactions (from $5 to $40) are conducted over the phone, future technologies may streamline the process to a single remote control. Optical-fiber ``video-on-demand'' cable systems, now being tested in Southern California by GTE Corp., will supply hundreds more titles at any time in the day. For pay-per-view companies, the easier the transaction, the brighter the future. Parents, beware. Pay-per-view caters to the same impulsive buyers who grab cheap pens and eyeglass nose cushions at supermarket checkouts _ never realizing they could probably do without until it's too late. With pay-per-view, though, there's the added chance that, just once, the purchase could be electrifying. About 600,000 fans optimistically coughed up $35 per home to watch last June's ``fight'' between Mike Tyson and Michael Spinks, which ended abruptly after 91 seconds. The Nov. 7 title match between Sugar Ray Leonard and Donny Lalonde brought in close to $20 million in pay-per-view grosses, just behind the Tyson-Spinks receipts. ``I think people love the excitement of a big championship fight,'' said Jeffrey Reiss, chairman of pay-per-view giant Request Television. ``You can have a group of people over to the house for the price of one ticket ... and have a beer and popcorn party.'' Nielsen ratings that would make network programmers scribble out suicide notes can be solid gold on pay-per-view, due to higher profit margins. ``We can make money on one rating point,'' said Scott Kurnit, president of Showtime Event Television. Although pay-per-view has been workable throughout the 1980s, only 21 percent of the country's 45 million cable households now have equipment permitting phone orders. That figure may double by 1990, and 40 million homes may have access to pay-per-view by 1994, according to estimates by Paul Kagan Associates, a media research firm. Yet the long-touted promise of pay-per-view has been slow in arriving, stalled by poor marketing, film-studio fears and technological obstacles. Cable television's reputation for poor customer service hasn't encouraged subscribers to experiment with a more complicated product. ``There's still a long way to go in consumer marketing,'' said Tim Clott, executive vice president of the video division at Paramount Pictures. ``And we want to find a technology that prohibits home taping.'' The studios don't want pay-per-view broadcasts to undermine the $2 billion home video market. Worried that pay-per-view customers will videotape their purchases, the studios typically offer movies to pay-per-view systems more than a month after their home-video debut, thereby dulling the excitement. Meanwhile, pay-per-view program options continue expanding. Robbie Knievel, Evel's son, will try to hurdle the Caesar's Palace fountains on April 14. ABC, CBS and NBC won't have it, but you can see the leap (or crash) on Showtime Event Television. On Feb. 10, Request Television will carry a taped concert of Frank Sinatra, Liza Minnelli and Sammy Davis Jr., at $14.95. Leaders in the pay-per-view business are predicting that Broadway openings, more pop music concerts, art auctions, business seminars and possibly the Super Bowl and the World Series soon could become pay-per-view staples. So, in the end, pay-per-view's future may lie in giving customers those unusual attractions they can't find at theaters, in video stores, or on any other broadcast or cable television channel. Said Showtime's Kurnit: ``We've always looked at the event business as where we'll make our money.'' What the word ``event'' comes to mean, though, is anybody's guess.
<irrelevant> Satellites will continue to be competitive with undersea fiber optic cables for communications between continents over the next 15 years, according to a study released Monday by a satellite company. The study by Communications Satellite Corp. disproves the notion that fiber optic cables are destined to drive satellites out of business, said Richard McGraw, a company spokesman. Comsat, a private company based in Washington, D.C., that provides satellite service, is the U.S. government's representative to the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization. The study covered the period from 1995 to 2005. Comsat said that was as far into the future as it could make realistic predictions. McGraw said Comsat was sensitive to appearances that it would tip the findings in favor of satellites and had actually given the benefit of the doubt to fiber optics in cost comparisons.
<irrelevant> In a deal that would be worth $365 million, Williams Telecommunications Group Inc. announced Tuesday it has entered into a definitive agreement to purchase Lightnet, a Delaware-based fiber-optic network. Williams has a nationwide fiber-optic network that extends for about 6,400 route miles. Fiber-optic technology allows strands of optical glass as thin as hairs, encased in underground cables, to carry huge volumes of information via bursts of laser light. The transaction to acquire Lightnet's 4,500-mile fiber-optic system would link the company to nearly all major metropolitan areas in the country, said Williams President Roy Wilkens. Lightnet is owned by subsidiaries of Southern New England Telecommunications Corp. and CSX Corp. Completion of the transaction, scheduled by early April, is subject to government approval. Williams Telecommunications, about 84 percent owned by The Williams Companies, Inc., in the past three years has become one of the nation's leading telecommunications common carriers for long distance companies and the private networks of corporations and institutions. Lightnet's network serves 38 major cities including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Chicago, Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Tampa and Miami. Williams Telecommunications has primarily served the midwestern and western United States. The Williams Companies, Inc., also is engaged in the pipeline transmission of natural gas and petroleum products.
</top>
<top>
<num> 99
<title> Iran-Contra Affair
<relevant> Prosecutors dropped an illegal arms case against a retired Israeli army general and 10 other people after the defendants argued the United States wouldn't have frowned on $2 billion in U.S. weapons sales to Iran. An investigation by the U.S. attorney's office found no evidence linking the arms transactions charged in the indictment with the so-called Iran-Contra affair, court papers said. However, the defendants argued they had reason to believe their activities had or would receive U.S. government approval, a contention that gained credence after the Iran-Contra arms scandal came to light. The defendants said they believed their plan to sell fighter planes, missiles, tanks and spare parts to Iran was officially sanctioned by the U.S. government, according to papers filed in U.S. District Court. Prosecutors could not produce witnesses to contradict the defendants' claim so the conspiracy case was dropped Wednesday. Gen. Avraham Bar-Am, who left the Israeli army in 1984 and later served as an arms consultant for Israel, and Samuel Evans, an American lawyer based in London, were among the 11 people and four corporations named in the papers. They were indicted between May and October 1986. Evans also was the lawyer for Adnan Khashoggi, a multibillionaire Saudi arms dealer who was said to have been involved in some of the Iran-Contra weapons deals. The U.S. Customs Service had set up an elaborate ``sting'' using a fraudulent bank account in late 1985, about the time Reagan administration officials were secretly selling arms to Iran and using the proceeds to finance the Contras fighting to overthrow the leftist Nicaraguan government. The defendants charged that Cyrus Hashemi, an Iranian oilman identified as the U.S. government's chief operative in the sting, was at the same time involved in shipping covert arms to Iran for the administration. Prosecutors said that Hashemi would have contradicted the defendants' claim that they had the government's blessing. However, Hashemi died in 1986, and the government could not ``procure the attendance at trial of any (other) such witness,'' court papers said. In September and October 1986, U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani's office was told by the Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency that there were no documents to support allegations that the United States sanctioned the delivery of arms to Iran by the defendants. But it was publicly revealed in November 1986 that members of the National Security Council had secretly engaged in the sale of arms to Iran.
<relevant> The narrow case that Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh has carved out against Oliver North targets the cover-up of the Iran-Contra money diversion and contains the charges even Walsh's critics thought were most likely to succeed. But the former White House aide would no longer be charged with a direct crime for diverting money from Iranian arms sales to the Nicaraguan Contras. Walsh proposed Thursday to skirt a raging dispute over what classified documents can be introduced by defense and prosecution by dropping charges of conspiracy and theft of government property. Those were the only remaining counts which charged a crime in diverting the money. But if U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell accepts Walsh's motion, North would still face 12 charges. Those 12 carry a cumulative, maximum penalty of 60 years in prison and $3 million in fines, although federal judges simply do not sentence first offenders to consecutive, maximum penalties on all counts which produce guilty verdicts. Nine of these counts charge North with trying to prevent discovery of his activities on behalf of the Contras, including misleading Congress and Attorney General Edwin Meese and shredding and altering government documents. The three other counts charge North with accepting a gratuity, converting money to personal use and scheming to defraud the Treasury of tax revenue. Of the nine cover-up-based counts, four relate directly to concealing the diversion of arms sale money. It is these four that longtime government prosecutors, speaking privately, always thought were Walsh's strongest charges. From the outset, Walsh confronted some legal problems. The Boland amendment barring aid to the Contras did not carry its own criminal penalties; some had argued it did not apply to the National Security Council where North worked. The conspiracy charge that Walsh fashioned to embrace the entire diversion effort was by no means unprecedented but it was an aggressive use of the law to deal with these legal problems. Even former top Justice Department officials were more comfortable with the theft of government property charge which was based on the diversion of the arm sale money. But Walsh's allies and critics alike were most impressed with four cover-up charges based on North's actions after the sale of U.S.-built missiles to Iran was disclosed in early November 1986. These counts charge North with obstructing Congress, obstructing a presidential inquiry by Meese, false statements and removing, falsifying and destroying official documents. The obstruction of Congress count charges North helped draft a false chronology to guide testimony by administration officials to Congress. Walsh charges he did this by having the document falsely claim that no U.S. official learned before January 1986 that Hawk missiles had been sold to Iran in November 1985. This count also charges him with altering, destroying and removing National Security Council documents between Nov. 21-25, 1986, that discussed the arms sales and aid to the Contras. The count of obstructing Meese's fact-finding inquiry for President Reagan charges North with falsely telling Meese in the attorney general's office on Nov. 23 that the National Security Council had no involvement in the diversion. This count also mentions the document destruction and removal. The false statements count charges North with falsely telling Meese at the same meeting that the Israelis determined how much of the arms sale proceeds went to the Contras. This count also charges that North falsely advised Meese that he had told Contra leader Adolfo Calero to open Swiss accounts to receive that money when he knew that the money had gone in accounts controlled by the Secord-Hakim enterprise. The document destruction count says that from mid-November until North's office was sealed by security agents on Nov. 25, 1986, he altered, destroyed and removed documents about the arms sales and aid to the Contras. For the document case, Walsh gave immunity early on to North's secretary Fawn Hall in return for her description. Later, the public heard her describe the shredding for Congress. To document the money flow, Walsh has Swiss bank records and the cooperation of Hakim's associate Willard Zucker. Meese testified at length to Walsh's grand jury, surely including what North told him. Other participants in drafting the phony chronology have recounted North's role. The other five cover-up-based accounts charge North with falsely denying or causing others to falsely deny to Congress that North was using other means to help the Contras with cash and military advice besides the arms sale diversion. These counts are all based on events before the arms sale was disclosed. The final three counts charge North with: _Taking a $13,800 security system for his home from Secord in returning for steering the Iran-Contra business to Secord. _Paying personal expenses out of $4,300 in traveler's checks given to him by Calero to help free U.S. hostages in Lebanon. _And conspiring to defraud the Treasury of tax revenue on $3.2 million donated to the right-wing National Endowment for the Preservation of Liberty by telling donors gifts were tax-exempt when they were actually used for the non-tax-exempt purpose of military aid to the Contras. EDITOR'S NOTE: Michael J. Sniffen has been covering legal issues in Washington for more than 15 years.
<relevant> Here is a brief chronology of events related to the Iran-Contra affair. MARCH 7 _ Cable News Network correspondent Jeremy Levin is kidnapped in Beirut. Levin, freed 11 months later, is first of 15 American hostages, of whom eight remain captive. Five were either freed or escaped. University librarian Peter Kilburn and CIA Beirut station chief William Buckley were murdered. SUMMER _ Iranian purchasing agents put out call for weapons, including TOW anti-tank missiles. By November, Iranians are suggesting link between weapons sales and release of U.S. hostages. JULY _ Israeli official suggests dealing with Iran to U.S. national security adviser Robert McFarlane and says transfer of arms could lead to release of hostages. McFarlane takes the message to President Reagan. AUG. 30 _ First planeload of U.S.-made weapons is sent from Israel to Tehran. McFarlane and Donald Regan, White House chief of staff, later disagree on whether Reagan approved shipment. Reagan says he does not remember. SEPT. 14 _ Second shipment is sent to Tehran. SEPT. 15 _ American hostage Rev. Benjamin Weir is released. DEC. 4 _ McFarlane resigns as national security adviser and is succeeded by Rear Adm. John Poindexter. DEC. 5 _ Reagan signs finding describing operation with Iran as strictly an arms-for-hostages deal. Poindexter later testifies that on Nov. 21, 1986, he tore up only copy of finding that bore the president's signature. DEC. 5 _ In discussions with Israeli officials about Iran arms shipments, national security aide Lt Col. Oliver North mentions plans to use Iranian weapons sales to generate profits that could be used to support Nicaragua's U.S.-backed Contras. JAN. 17 _ Reagan signs a secret intelligence finding authorizing CIA participation in the sales and ordering process be kept secret from Congress. FEBRUARY _ First direct shipment of arms from Pentagon stocks is sent to Iran. APRIL _ North writes memo outlining plans to use $12 million in profits from Iran arms sales for Contra aid. MAY 25 _ North and McFarlane fly to Tehran with shipment of spare parts, expecting hostages to be freed. Negotiations break down and they return to Washington. SEPT. 26 _ Iranian middlemen deposit $7 million into Swiss bank account. More spare parts and TOWs are prepared for shipment. OCT. 5 _ North flies to West Germany for meeting with Iranian contact who says he can obtain release of one hostage for 500 TOWs. NOV. 2 _ American hostage David Jacobsen, held since June 1985, is freed. NOV. 4 _ A pro-Syrian news magazine in Beirut breaks news that McFarlane had flown to Iran to meet and negotiate with officials there. NOV. 13 _ White House admits selling arms to Iran. Reagan repeats administration has not bargained with terrorists or sold arms for hostages. NOV. 21 _ CIA director William Casey briefs Senate Intelligence Committee on arms deal, but makes no mention of diversion of funds. North and his secretary, Fawn Hall, shred, alter and remove documents relevant to arms deal. NOV. 25 _ Reagan announces North has been fired and Poindexter has resigned. Attorney General Edwin Meese discloses $10 million to $30 million in arms-sale profits were diverted to Contras. NOV. 26 _ Reagan sets up Tower Commission to review role of National Security Council. DEC. 1-3 _ Senate Intelligence Committee begins inquiry into revelations by questioning McFarlane. Committee also questions North and Poindexter, who both invoke the Fifth Amendment. DEC. 19 _ Lawrence E. Walsh is appointed independent counsel to investigate the deal. Both houses of Congress select investigating committees. FEB. 18 _ Tower Commission issues its report rebuking Reagan for failing to control national security staff. MARCH 4 _ Reagan acknowledges in televised speech his Iranian initiative deteriorated into arms-for-hostages deal. ``It was a mistake.'' MAY 5 _ Congressional Iran-Contra hearings begin with testimony from retired Air Force Gen. Richard Secord, who describes how $3.5 million in proceeds from arms sales to Iran were diverted to Contras. MAY 6 _ Casey dies. MAY 11 _ McFarlane begins four days of testimony, during which he says Reagan instructed staff in 1984 to find ways around congressional ban on U.S. military aid to Contras. McFarlane denies he, North and Poindexter concocted cover story in early November 1986 to cover up administration's arms sales to Iran. JULY 7 _ North begins six days on stand during which he says he had authorization from his superiors for diverting Iran arms sale money to the Contras, Casey knew of diversion all along, and North always assumed Reagan knew about it. But he says he never discussed plan with the president or received written presidential authorization for it. JULY 15 _ Poindexter testifies over five days he never told Reagan Iran arms sale proceeds were being diverted to Contras. Poindexter says Reagan, in writing, authorized straight arms-for-hostages swap in December 1985 but Poindexter tore up the document in November 1986 as the affair unraveled. AUG. 6 _ Hearings conclude. NOV. 18 _ Final report of House and Senate investigating committees concludes Reagan bears ultimate responsibility for Iran-Contra affair because he allowed ``cabal of the zealots'' to seize control of policy and bypass the law. Committee Republicans dissented sharply, saying mistakes amounted only to errors of judgment. MARCH 16 _ North, Poindexter and two others are indicted on charges they conspired to divert Iranian arms sales profits to the Contras. ``I can assure you I will never give up, we will win, I just cannot tell you how soon,'' North says. The case is assigned to U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell. MARCH 17 _ Marlin Fitzwater, President Reagan's spokesman, says there has been no discussion of a pardon for North. MARCH 18 _ North announces he will retire from the Marine Corps May 1 because he may have to subpoena ``the highest ranking officials in our government.'' MARCH 25 _ Reagan refers to ``the so-called scandal'' and says he still considers North ``my hero.'' JUNE 6 _ Gesell, who authorized turning over 300,000 documents to the defense, warns that the danger of exposing the nation's most sensitive secrets poses a serious obstacle to pressing the conspiracy charges against the four defendants. JUNE 8 _ Gesell orders separate trials for the four defendants; Walsh, the next day, chooses North for the leadoff trial. JULY 8 _ Gesell sets Sept. 20 for the start of North's trial. AUG. 5 _ Gesell reschedules trial for after the election to give lawyers time to sort through hundreds of thousands of classified documents and orders North to file a specific notice of the government secrets he wants to disclose. SEPT. 30 _ Federal appeals court rebuffs attempt by North and two other defendants to stop the prosecution. NOV. 7 _ One of 16 criminal counts, fabricating a document, is dismissed. NOV. 21 _ Gesell warns if North stands trial, the court will have little control over the testimony of witnesses ``acquainted with high security matters.'' He appeals to Reagan to decide whether North is to be pardoned. NOV. 29 _ Gesell refuses to dismiss two of the central charges against North, conspiracy to defraud the government and theft of government property. He dismisses a third, wire fraud. DEC. 1 _ President Reagan rules out a North pardon but says ``duty requires'' his administration to block release of secret documents North wants for his trial. DEC. 1 _ Amiram Nir, the Israeli go-between in secret U.S. arms deals with Iran, died Nov. 30 in a plane crash in Mexico while traveling under an assumed name, Mexican officials say. DEC. 12 _ Gesell tells North he can't use 3,500 secret documents; says he can't use more than 300, roughly the same number planned to be introduced as evidence by the prosecution. The decision removes a major obstacle to the trial going forward. DEC. 16 _ John W. Keker, a former Marine who was _ like North _ wounded in combat in Vietnam, is named to be lead prosecutor in North's trial. DEC. 21 _ Gesell sets Jan. 31 for the start of the trial. DEC. 30 _ North subpoenaes President Reagan and President-elect Bush as defense witnesses. The Justice Department says the summons ``raises significant legal and constitutional questions.'' JAN. 5 _ Prosecutors ask Gesell to dismiss conspiracy and theft charges, citing North's ``insistence on introducing classified information in his defense'' and the Reagan administration's refusal to release material the judge ruled North would need at trial. Gesell sets hearing for Jan. 9. Reagan says action satisfies concern about national security. Asked about a pardon, he says ``we're waiting for the judicial process to go forward.''
<relevant> The prosecution's request to drop the most sweeping and controversial Iran-Contra charges against Oliver L. North could make it easier to put the former presidential aide on trial, legal experts say. The most politically explosive charges, alleging a conspiracy to divert to Nicaraguan rebels $14 million in proceeds from U.S.-Iran arms sales, will be gone if the dismissal move by independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh succeeds. But some experts say that would leave a ``lean and mean'' case against North, free of problems that have bogged down the proceedings for months. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell will decide whether to grant the dismissal motion. If he does, prosecutors will still be able to try the former National Security Council aide on 12 felony charges, including allegations that he shredded documents and lied both to Congress and a presidential inquiry in an effort to conceal his involvement in the Iran-Contra affair. ``The sex appeal part of this case is always the conspiracy,'' said Washington attorney Stanley Brand. ``But there is still a substantial case left.'' ``Lying to Congress and obstruction of justice are not small matters, if in fact that's what happened,'' said Brand, a former counsel to the House of Representatives. ``Lying to the Congress may be worse'' than actually diverting arms-sale proceeds to help the Contras at a time lawmakers had banned such assistance to the rebels, Brand said. ``The public's perception of this and what it says about the distribution of powers among the branches of government is as important to me as whether anybody goes to jail,'' he added. The remaining counts carry prison terms totaling 60 years. They include charges that North lied to Congress in 1985 and 1986 about his involvement in the covert Contra resupply operation. North also is accused of accepting installation of a $13,800 security fence around his suburban Virginia home, pocketing at least $4,300 in travelers checks from Contra leader Adolfo Calero and illegally using a tax-exempt foundation to raise money for the rebels. Other counts charge that North lied to Attorney General Edwin Meese III and destroyed official documents during the Nov. 20-23, 1986, presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Since the indictment was returned March 16, a number of federal prosecutors have privately criticized Walsh for bringing a broad conspiracy charge against North and his three co-defendants. These prosecutors questioned the wisdom of trying to criminalize the conduct of North, former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord. But many of these same prosecutors also supported the decision to charge North with destroying documents and lying to Meese. The Justice Department last fall filed a brief criticizing a legal theory Walsh used to support the conspiracy charge, saying it would set a dangerous precedent for prosecuting government officials whose conduct had not actually violated any laws. Brand rejected this criticism of Walsh's use of the conspiracy statute, a popular law among federal prosecutors in other cases. ``It was fine with those guys to use it against politicians when they thought it was in their interest,'' he said. Walsh successfully defended the legality of the charges he brought against North. Gesell refused to dismiss all but two of the 16 original charges. From the start, however, there was a problem about the conspiracy and theft charges. North's defense against the charges _ that he thought he was acting with President Reagan's permission _ hinged in part on highly secret information about covert operations. Gesell, meanwhile, stuck to his ruling that the prosecution must disclose more information than the Reagan administration wanted released in open court. That prompted Walsh on Thursday to seek dismissal of the key charges, a motion in all likelihood Gesell will grant at a hearing Monday. Walsh's decision prompted charges that the Reagan administration deliberately held back releasing some secrets to help scuttle the major charges against North. But Attorney General Richard Thornburgh defended the administration, noting that when Walsh informed him of the decision the independent counsel did not complain that the intelligence agencies had treated him unfairly. Reagan himself said Walsh's decision ``satisfies our problem, which has been concern.. about national security.'' North's lawyer, Brendan V. Sullivan Jr., said in a statement that ``although the heart of its case is destroyed, the independent counsel continues to toy with Col. North.'' Sullivan vowed to continue to press the secrecy issue on the remaining charges, stating that Walsh ``apparently refuses to recognize that classified information pervades the remaining charges as well.'' But Laurence Tribe, a Harvard University law professor who has done some work for Walsh's office, said the secrecy problems will be ``radically reduced'' once the conspiracy and theft charges are dismissed. Walsh will have ``a lean and mean version of the prosecution,'' Tribe said. ``With must of the most dramatic conspiracy and theft elements removed.. (Walsh) can proceed without the cloud of national security'' hanging over the case.
<relevant> The prosecution in the trial of Oliver North says it has added to its witness list the names of a former congressman whom North is accused of misleading over aid to the Contras and beer magnate Joseph Coors, who says he gave the Nicaraguan rebels $65,000 after meeting with North. Also on the revised list of prosecution witnesses against the fired National Security Council aide is William Langton, president of Southern Air Transport, a former CIA proprietary involved in both the Contra resupply operation and the administration's secret arms sales to Iran. The new names were on a list that actually contains fewer names, 40 rather than 87, reflecting a motion by independent counsel Lawrence Walsh to dismiss the two central charges of conspiracy and theft against North. But at a hearing Monday, U.S. District Judge Gerhard Gesell said he wouldn't dismiss the charges until Attorney General Dick Thornburgh explains the administration's refusal to declassify information Gesell says must be released for North to get a fair trial. An interagency intelligence group in the Reagan administration has declined to declassify certain material in 300 prosecution exhibits Walsh wants to present at trial, which forced Walsh to seek dismissal of the two central charges. Twelve charges remain. Walsh said he is ``quite sure'' he can get an affidavit from Thornburgh and Gesell said he hopes to receive it by Thursday. Justice Department spokesman Loye Miller declined to comment on whether Thornburgh would supply an affidavit, but a department source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he assumed the attorney general probably will submit one. Former U.S. Rep. Michael Barnes, newly on the prosecution witness list, in mid-1985 asked the NSC whether the staff was assisting the Contras and requested all information pertaining to contact between North and rebel leaders. North prepared then-National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane's written response to the Democrat from Maryland, according to the two counts in the indictment against North that charge him with obstruction of Congress and making false statements. The response to Barnes said that ``none of us has solicited funds, facilitated contacts for prospective potential donors, or otherwise organized or coordinated the military or paramilitary efforts of the resistance.'' Barnes at the time was chairman of the House subcommittee on western hemisphere affairs. In congressional testimony on the Iran-Contra affair in 1987, North testified that ``I probably'' helped draft McFarlane's response to Barnes, but that ``I don't recall specifically, there were a number of these'' responses to congressional inquiries. The letter to Barnes accounted for one of the misdemeanor charges of withholding information from Congress to which McFarlane pleaded guilty last March in the Iran-Contra affair. Coors made the $65,000 contribution to the Contras after meeting with North in 1985, less than three months before the letter to Barnes from the NSC. Coors has said he met in June 1985 with then-CIA Director William Casey, who referred Coors to North when Coors expressed an interest in giving money to the Contras at a time when U.S. military aid to them was banned by Congress. At a meeting in Casey's office in the old executive office building next to the White House, the CIA director ``said Ollie North is the guy to see,'' Coors said in 1987 in congressional testimony on the Iran-Contra affair. Coors then walked over to see North, who said the Contras needed a Maule aircraft and gave Coors the number of a Swiss bank account where he could send his contribution. The account number was for Lake Resources Inc., part of the maze of companies which Richard Secord and Albert Hakim, who also are charged in the Iran-Contra case, used to funnel money to the Contras from the administration's arms sales to Iran as well as from a private fund-raising network. Coors arranged for $65,000 to be sent to the Lake Resources account and then contacted North, saying he had made it clear he wanted to give humanitarian, non-military aid to the Contras. Coors said North ``indicated that this plane would fit into that pattern.'' North denied in 1987 congressional testimony that he had solicited the funds, saying instead that Coors ``offered the money, and I told him where to send it.''
<irrelevant> The massive amount of classified information pervading the Iran-Contra case is threatening again to delay this month's scheduled start of former presidential aide Oliver L. North's criminal trial. A federal appeals court Tuesday temporarily stayed pre-trial review of North's plans to divulge classified information when his lawyers question high government officials in open court. And the federal judge in the case, Gerhard A. Gesell, on Tuesday turned down a request to further censor classified documents prosecutors want to use as evidence to accommodate objections of intelligence agencies. The decision by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals here to consider North's motion to permanently bar Gesell from giving prosecutors a summary of the proposed defense testimony could force a delay in the trial, now set for Jan. 31. North is charged along with former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and Richard V. Secord with conspiring to illegally divert more than $14 million in U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels. The three-judge appeals panel issued an indefinite ``administrative stay'' of Gesell's plan to give independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh the 162-page defense summary while it considers what the defense called ``grave constitutional issues'' involving North's right to a fair trial. Gesell, meanwhile, refused Walsh's request to make more editing changes in the 300 prosecution exhibits. U.S. intelligence agencies are concerned that sensitive references in the documents that cover some 3,000 pages could disclose covert operations or secret dealings with foreign nations. A ranking administration official said it was too early to assess the full impact of Gesell's ruling on the case against North. But Gesell's latest decision was a fresh reminder that government refusal to disclose certain classified information at trial could scuttle major charges against the former White House aide. Under the Classified Information Procedures Act, the attorney general can decide to seek dismissal of criminal charges to prevent disclosure of secrets that might endanger national security. The administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the decision did not spell the end of the case against North but it could bar Walsh from using some of the documents as evidence. Gesell, for instance, is insisting that the names of Israel, Iran and the Central American nations appear in any document despite a government proposal to refer to each nation by a letter. This procedure was used during the 1987 congressional Iran-Contra hearings, even though the true identities of the countries quickly became an open secret. Gesell is known to have raised concerns at the CIA and other agencies about his insistence that government reports be quoted verbatim with only a few modifications to protect sources and methods of intelligence gathering. Walsh's request for a modification of Gesell's Dec. 12 order was filed under court seal Dec. 22 after the independent counsel had conferred with the White House and an interagency task force that is reviewing the classified information at issue. North contends that Gesell's decision to let Walsh look at the summary of his defense strategy will give prosecutors an unfair advantage before the case goes to trial. Lawyers for the former National Security Council aide described the document in court papers as ``a detailed road map to the defense case.'' ``Never has a criminal defendant been compelled to disclose _ before the prosecution has called its first witness _ the details of proposed defense testimony on virtually every disputed factual issue in this case,'' the defense said in papers filed Tuesday. Gesell had proposed to give Walsh the summary by Tuesday afternoon, barring intervention from the appeals court. The case before Circuit Judges Kenneth Starr, James Buckley and David Sentelle is one of several issues that could delay the proceeding. Also looming on the horizon is North's attempt to subpoena President Reagan and Vice President Bush to testify as witnesses. Justice Department officials said Tuesday that a motion to quash the subpoenas could be filed by week's end. The government is expected to resist the subpoenas based on the principle of separation of powers, executive privilege and the need to protect classified information. North, meanwhile, has subpoenaed other administration officials, notably Secretary of State George Shultz and several of his top aides, including Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams, Undersecretary Michael H. Armacost, legal adviser Abraham Sofaer and M. Charles Hill, Shultz's executive assistant.
<irrelevant> As Ronald Reagan steps from the stage, he leaves a world remarkably different from the one he inherited eight years ago. During Reagan's watch, Soviet-American relations took on a warmth that could not have been anticipated then. Much of Latin America shed its dictators and embraced democracy. The United Nations gained in importance. The U.S. government opened talks with the Palestine Liberation Organization, which the Reagan administration had labeled an outlaw band of terrorists. And the administration sold arms to another adversary _ the regime of the ayatollah in Iran. Associated Press reporters who have covered these events sum up the Reagan impact on world affairs: WASHINGTON _ Reagan rewrote the book on dealing with the Kremlin. But if the book has changed, so has Moscow and so has Reagan. At the outset, Reagan labelled the Soviet Union an ``evil empire'' whose leaders asserted for themselves the ``right to commit any crime, to lie, to cheat, to attain their goal.'' ``So far, detente has been a one-way street that the Soviet Union has used to pursue its own aims,'' Reagan said on Jan. 29, 1981. He backed his rhetoric with a trillion dollar defense buildup. The Soviets cranked up their propaganda machine in response, equating the Reagan administration with Hitler's Third Reich. After the Soviets walked out of talks to limit intermediate-range missiles, Reagan pulled his biggest surprise, in March 1983 directing U.S. scientists to devise a shield against intercontinental ballistic missiles. The Strategic Defense Initiative reversed an 11-year-old policy and has dominated the arms control debate since then. It is widely credited with driving the Soviets back to the bargaining table. At the same time, one generation was giving way to another in the Kremlin. Leonid Brezhnev, who was Soviet leader when Reagan took office and under whom the Soviets invaded Afghanistan in December 1979 and countenanced the military crackdown against Poland's Solidarity labor union two years later, died in November 1982. He was followed in quick succession by two elderly men, Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko, who died in office and gave way to Mikhail S. Gorbachev in March 1985. Reagan and Gorbachev found they could do business. In December 1987, they signed a treaty that for the first time eliminated a whole class of new nuclear weapons and created a highly intrusive system of on-site verification. The two sides also have made progress on a treaty to sharply reduce long-range weapons, although differences remain, especially over Star Wars. The changes have been profound enough for Reagan to declare at a news conference concluding the Moscow summit last summer that he had ``great confidence'' in Gorbachev's ability to change the Soviet Union. _By Bryan Brumley WASHINGTON _ Israel considered Reagan its best friend in the White House since President Harry S. Truman supported establishment of the Jewish state 40 years ago. But in his last weeks, Reagan and Secretary of State George P. Shultz authorized talks with the PLO. It was a shocking turn of events bound to open a new chapter in the Mideast's history. The decision, based on statements made by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat renouncing terrorism and saying a Palestinian state would live alongside Israel, dismayed Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and was denounced by the Jerusalem government. Still, the criticism was muted, while American Jewish leaders also held their fire. This was largely due to the trust Reagan and Shultz had built up. Peace plans advanced _ unsuccessfully _ by Reagan and Shultz did not provide for an independent Palestinian state nor call on Israel to relinquish all of the West Bank and Gaza. U.S. criticism of the spread of Jewish outposts in the territories was muted and a U.N. resolution condemning them as illegal and an obstruction to peace was vetoed by the United States. The strenuous American campaign against terrorism led by Shultz cemented ties with Israel, a target of extremists. American jets bombed Tripoli, the capital of Libya, and Shultz denied a visa to Arafat to speak at the United Nations in New York. Ironically, only a few weeks later, Shultz approved a ``substantive dialogue'' with the PLO, which enhanced Arafat's prestige and was received with jubilation in the Arab world. In another curious twist, the Untied States and Israel secretly provided arms to Iran despite Iran's presence on the State Department's list of countries that support terrorism. The purpose was to encourage moderation in Tehran and to secure the release of American hostages. Nine remain in captivity as Reagan leaves office. In 1982, when Israeli troops and tanks rolled into Lebanon in a campaign to wipe out the PLO, the Reagan administration organized a diplomatic effort to stop the invasion short of Beirut and dispatched U.S. Marines to protect the PLO as it evacuated the country. Lebanese Christians massacred Palestinians that September in refugee camps south of Beirut, bringing U.S. Marines back to lower tensions. This mission ended in disaster. Terrorists blew up the U.S. embassy in April 1983 and bombed the Marines' headquarters in October, killing 241 servicemen. In 1983, Shultz worked out an agreement for Israel to withdraw its troops while Lebanon moved toward recognition of the Jewish state. Syria and Saudi Arabia persuaded Lebanon to abandon the accord. In the meantime, Reagan's plan for peace talks between Israel and the Arabs did not get off the ground when it was rejected by Menachem Begin, then Israel's prime minister, in 1982. Shultz tried a similar version of ``land-for-peace'' in 1988, but it was not accepted by Israel, Jordan and Palestinians. A tougher test of the U.S.-Iraelirelationship began with rising violence by Palestinian Arabs on the West Bank and in Gaza a year ago and the establishment of a U.S. dialogue with the PLO _ a matter now put in George Bush's hands. _By Barry Schweid UNITED NATIONS _ It wasn't Ronald Reagan's doing, but the United Nations began to play an important role in world affairs. Its peacekeeping forces won the Nobel Peace Prize and some member states even started paying back dues. Reagan had been critical of the world organization for seven years, but in October, addressing the 159 nations of the General Assembly for the last time, he conceded: ``Yes, the United Nations is a better place today. But so, too, is the world.'' The United Nations has played or is playing a major role in molding peace agreements, peace talks or peace prospects in Afghanistan, the Iran-Iraq war, Southern Africa and Namibia, Cambodia and the Western Sahara. The United States, the biggest U.N. donor, feels it has prodded the world body into cutting costs. Washington saw an anti-American bias, overspending, overstaffing, bureaucracy and waste and complained that poor, developing nations hostile to the West contributed little but dictated how U.S. funds would be spent of squandered.
<irrelevant> The Iran-Contra prosecutor sought dismissal Thursday of the two major charges against former White House aide Oliver L. North, giving up a struggle with the Reagan administration over disclosure of some of the nation's best-kept secrets. Independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh moved to dismiss conspiracy and theft charges, citing North's ``insistence on introducing classified information in his defense'' and the Reagan administration's refusal to release material the judge ruled North would need at trial. North is still confronted with 12 felony charges that carry prison terms totaling as much as 60 years. These include obstructing various congressional and presidential inquiries into the Iran-Contra affair by preparing false statements and destroying documents. U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell scheduled a hearing for Monday to consider Walsh's request, but the judge is expected to dismiss the charges. President Reagan, returning to the White House from a California vacation, said of Walsh's motion, ``It satisfies our problem, which has been ... concern about national security ... but of course the judge has not responded yet. We're waiting to see what the future is going to be.'' Asked whether he was going to pardon North, Reagan said, ``We're waiting for the judicial process to go forward.'' The president has repeatedly said he has no plans to pardon his former aide. But the head of the liberal group People for the American Way criticized the administration's stance on the classified documents and said Walsh's ``efforts appear to have been sandbagged.'' The group's president, Arthur Kropp, said ``the Reagan administration appears determined to give Ollie North a `pocket' pardon as a reward for his Iran-Contra activities.'' Attorney General Dick Thornburgh denied such contentions, telling reporters outside the Justice Department, ``On the contrary, the assurance that was given to me by Judge Walsh was that he had been dealt with in good faith, that every line of inquiry that he pursued he received the fullest cooperation from the executive branch.'' Walsh had informed Thornburgh of his decision to seek dismissal at a meeting Wednesday. Reagan and Vice President Bush have been subpoenaed by North to testify at the trial, but dropping the two major charges could make it harder to show why their testimony would be needed, perhaps defusing a legal issue that has threatened to delay the trial now scheduled to begin Jan. 31. However, defense attorney Brendan V. Sullivan Jr., said in an angrily worded statement that he would continue to seek to use classified documents to defend the remaining charges against North. ``Although the heart of its case is destroyed, the independent counsel continues to toy with Colonel North and apparently refuses to recognize that classified information pervades the remaining charges as well,'' Sullivan said. In his motion, Walsh said the conspiracy and theft charges that North and three co-defendants illegally diverted more than $14 million in U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels posed ``the most difficult classified information problems'' in the case. ``These counts allege broad-reaching activities... that include North's interaction with a number of intelligence agencies and touch upon a number of highly classified covert programs,'' Walsh said in a brief motion filed with Gesell. ``Efforts to simplify the charges have not eliminated the risk that a quantity of classified national security information would be compromised by a public trial'' on the two charges, Walsh said. Among other allegations, the retired Marine lieutenant colonel and former National Security Council aide is still charged with illegally using a tax-exempt foundation to help finance the Nicaraguan rebels known as Contras, making personal use of at least $4,300 in travelers checks he received from the anti-Sandinista movement and accepting an illegal gift in the form of a $14,000 security fence at his suburban Virginia home. But if Gesell grants Thursday's dismissal motion, North would no longer be accused of illegally diverting arms-for-hostage proceeds to secretly finance the Contras at a time Congress had banned such aid. Walsh's move also suggests that the two major charges could also be dismissed later against North's co-defendants, former National Security Adviser John M. Poindexter and arms dealers Albert Hakim and retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard V. Secord. That would depend, however, on how much classified information might be deemed necessary for their defense efforts. Poindexter's access to secret documents when he worked at the White House would probably put him in the best position of the three to gain dismissal on such grounds. Walsh's motion was triggered by Gesell's refusal to allow more censoring of 300 prosecution exhibits to meet administration concerns about disclosing in court sensitive information about covert intelligence operations. The prosecutor concluded that the two charges ``cannot be tried in a manner that protects that information.'' Under the Classified Information Procedures Act, the court is powerless to order disclosure of secret evidence needed in the case. But the judge can dismiss certain criminal charges if the government refuses to make the classified information available for use at a public trial. Gesell had said that if the prosecution were to follow through on plans to use exhibits covering some 3,000 pages of documents, it had to include verbatim quotations from intelligence reports and references to foreign officials by their general importance and function. The judge also insisted on including references to CIA officials, sources and propriety companies. North had initially sought to disclose several thousand government documents, covering extremely sensitive information including efforts to locate U.S. hostages in the Middle East. In a tartly worded opinion issued last month, Gesell accused the defense of trying to force disclosure of irrelevant but sensitive information to scuttle the case.
<irrelevant> A powerful weapon in Oliver L. North's defense arsenal may be silenced by the prosecution's decision to drop the two central charges against him in the Iran-Contra case. The ex-Marine's continued demand to include national secrets in the case was delaying the trial while independent counsel Lawrence E. Walsh fought a rear-guard action with intelligence agencies over the release of classified information demanded by the court. Faced with the Reagan administration's refusal to allow more disclosures of secret information in his own evidence, Walsh streamlined the case Thursday by asking the court to dismiss the two charges most laden with national security problems. If as expected U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell grants Walsh's motion, the prosecutor will surrender the most politically explosive charges, which allege a criminal conspiracy to divert U.S.-Iran arms-sale profits to the Nicaraguan rebels. But Laurence Tribe, a constitutional scholar at Harvard University Law School, who has done some legal work for Walsh, says what's left is a ``lean and mean'' set of allegations that North shredded documents, lied to Congress and obstructed a presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. Walsh can ``proceed without the cloud of national security'' hanging over the remaining charges against the former National Security Council aide, Tribe said. The move may also defuse the difficult legal issue raised by North's issuance of subpoenas for President Reagan and President-elect Bush to testify in court. That question, unresolved by the courts, could have delayed the trial for months while White House lawyers fought the summonses all the way to the Supreme Court. Without charges he conspired to corrupt Reagan's legitimate effort to sell arms to free American hostages, North will have a harder time justifying the need to subpoena Reagan and Bush. ``When those issues are removed, both the need for presidential testimony and the need for the great bulk of the documents that allegedly might compromise national security are radically reduced,'' Tribe said. North can no longer claim that he thought he was acting with presidential authority when he secretly helped finance the Nicaraguan rebel cause with money from the arms-for-hostages deals. Therefore he has no need to use classified documents to support a contention that his modus operandi in other, authorized, covert operations was no different from the role he played overseeing the secret arms network for the Contras. It is unlikely Gesell would let North claim he thought he was acting with presidential authority when he shredded National Security Council documents and lied to Attorney General Edwin Meese III during the November 1986 presidential investigation of the Iran-Contra affair. The 12 remaining charges are all felonies that carry penalties ranging from two to 10 years imprisonment and fines up to $250,000. ``It's a sad day when we think charges of lying to Congress, obstructing (a presidential inquiry)... and destroying documents are somehow relatively unimportant,'' Tribe said. ``In the broader scheme of things those charges should be taken very seriously.'' Some of those charges may still pose some secrecy problems for Walsh, and he may have to jettison a few other counts of the indictment. But it greatly increases the likelihood that the case will go to trial in the near future. Tribe said it also reduced the possibility that Reagan would reverse his oft-stated position and issue a pardon. ``The need to use a pardon as a means of preserving the alleged confidentiality of executive information is a greatly reduced one.'' Another Harvard University law professor, Alan Dershowitz, said he thought dismissal of the two major charges against the retired Marine colonel will ``make it a lot easier... for North to defend himself at trial.'' ``He won this battle,'' Dershowitz said. ``It remains to be seen whether he's gonna win the war.'' EDITOR'S NOTE: James Rowley covers the Justice Department for The Associated Press and has written about the Iran-Contra case for two years.
<irrelevant> Has any one told Ronald Reagan he only has less than two weeks left in the White House? He's not conducting his foreign policy that way. Consider the following actions by the Reagan administration in the past month: _ Reagan met in New York with Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who announced a decision to reduce the Red Army by 500,000, helping redress the military imbalance that Reagan made a campaign issue in 1979 _ a decade ago. _ Reagan on Dec. 15 authorized a dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization following statements by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat renouncing the use of terrorism and accepting two U.N. resolutions that recognize the right of Israel to exist; _ Reagan agreed, after holding out for years, to a Soviet proposal for a multinational human rights conference in Moscow. The Moscow session would come in 1991, following similar meetings in Paris and Copenhagen over the preceding two years. Secretary of State George P. Shultz launched a diplomatic initiative to curb the proliferation of chemical weapons, following the reported use of such poisons by Iraq in its war with Iran and Iraq and reports that Libya had built a chemical weapons plant. _ American forces bloodied the nose of Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, the man Reagan loves to hate, as two U.S. F-14 Tomcat fighters shot down two Libyan MiG-23's that the Pentagon says approached with hostile intent. That's an active foreign policy agenda, compared to that of previous recent presidents as they awaited their successors to take office. Two years ago, as Reagan was embroiled in the Iran-Contra affair, few predicted that he would close with such a flurry. But in December 1987, the man who had severely criticized previous arms controls treaties signed one of his own, eliminating medium-range Soviet and American nuclear weapons. And in May 1988, the president who five years earlier called the Soviet Union the ``Evil Empire'' traveled to Moscow to bless Gorbachev's reforms. In some of these instances, Reagan may have been reacting rather than acting. And many people believe that President-elect Bush, despite his denials, already has become the de facto president, with Reagan spending much of his time in California. One student of the presidency says the recent activism probably would have been impossible if Mike Dukakis had defeated Bush. ``If Dukakis had won, there would be less chance that he could pull it off,'' said Samuel Kernell, a professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego. ``What Reagan has done is likely to have been cleared by the Bush people and is not likely to be undone by Bush'' after Jan. 20, said Kernell. And it is no coincidence that Reagan's activities have been in the foreign rather than the domestic realm, said Kernell. ``Foreign affairs is one area in which presidents can act more or less on their own,'' said Kernell. ``The only problem that they face is that foreign leaders are less interested in them. ``But for once it was in the Soviets' interest to continue working with Reagan. That was probably helped by fact that Bush was Reagan's protege.'' One liberal critic of Reagan, John Steinbruner of the Brookings Institution in Washington, said that ``although there has been a set of events that gives great promise, I don't think the administration initiated them.'' ``This business about chemical weapons is driven by international events,'' Steinbruner said. ``The Libyan plant was just finished and the international conference was scheduled for a long time. ``And clearly Gorbachev set the schedule for the troop reductions in Europe.'' Despite the skepticism, Reagan's finale compares favorably with his predecessors'. President Carter, defeated by Reagan in November 1980, spent his last 444 days preoccupied with the American hostages, who were released by Iran on the day Reagan took office. President Gerald Ford, beaten by Carter in 1976, left little imprint on U.S. foreign policy during his 29 months in office. President Nixon spent his last months in office battling the Watergate scandal, which forced him to resign on Aug. 9, 1974. President Johnson surprised the nation, and many of his closest advisers, with the televised announcement in March 1968 that he would not seek re-election, and spent last nine months in office futilely seeking a solution to the Vietnam War. Bryan Brumley covers national security issues for The Associated Press.
</top>
<top>
<num> 100
<title> Controlling the Transfer of High Technology
<relevant> The Bush administration has begun a review of nine-year-old allied trade sanctions imposed against the Soviet Union following its invasion of Afghanistan, the State Department said Tuesday. The ``no-exceptions'' policy requires allied rejection of all Soviet requests for the purchase of items with potential military use. State Department spokesman Charles Redman said U.S. allies in the 15-nation Coordinating Committee for Strategic Exports (COCOM) believe that the policy should now be lifted. Redman said that with the Soviets' Afghan withdrawal in its final stage, the administration has begun a review of this policy. Under an agreement signed last spring, the Soviets pledged to have all of its troops out of Afghanistan by Feb. 15. Redman said the administration continues to oppose the export of goods or technology in COCOM that would pose a strategic risk. ``Whatever might come out of this review and whatever might be decided in COCOM, lifting the `no exceptions' policy would in no way weaken the COCOM regime or facilitate the flow of sensitive technology to the Soviet Union,'' he said. Even if the policy is lifted, all exports of dual-use technologies would still be subject to COCOM review, and the United States would still block the sale of any militarily sensitive technologies to the Soviet Union, he said. COCOM membership includes Japan and all NATO allies except Iceland.
<relevant> A potential battle is brewing between Congress and the Bush administration over plans to transfer to Japan $7 billion in advanced aircraft technology developed for the U.S. Air Force's F-16 fighter. The controversy over Japan's proposed FSX warplane casts a shadow over last week's summit visit by Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita, the first foreign leader to be hosted at the White House since President Bush took office. Under the pending agreement, St. Louis-based General Dynamics would join forces with Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries to co-develop and co-produce a new-generation Japanese fighter, for deployment in the late 1990s. Proponents say the deal is the best that could be negotiated in view of Japanese refusal to buy wholly American-built planes, and that it fosters beneficial technology transfer in both directions with Japan while generating income and jobs for U.S. industry. Critics, however, contend the agreement amounts to a technological giveaway that will enable the Japanese to compete more effectively against this country in the global aviation market. They argue that Tokyo should purchase American-made fighters to help offset the $50 billion U.S. trade deficit with Japan. The FSX issue surfaced during a Capitol Hill meeting Friday between Takeshita and Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell, D-Maine, Minority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., and a group of other senators involved with trade and foreign affairs. During the closed-door meeting, questions over the proposed deal were raised by Sen. John C. Danforth, R-Mo., according to Japanese officials who briefed reporters after the session. Danforth was among 12 senators who signed a letter to Bush urging that his administration conduct a complete review of the FSX agreement, which had been negotiated under the Reagan administration. The letter, organized by Sens. Jeff Bingaman, D-N.M., and Jesse Helms, R-N.C., said the deal posed complex issues including defense burden-sharing and the ``long-term impact on the health and competitiveness of the American aerospace industry, the only high technology area in which the United States remains the undisputed world leader.'' ``We are requesting that you order a complete review of the FSX program within the administration, including the departments of Commerce, Labor and Energy, as well as the Office of the Trade Representative and the White House science office,'' the senators told Bush. After the letter went to the White House, Secretary of State James A. Baker III said at a meeting Thursday with Japanese Foreign Minister Sousuke Uno that the administration was, in fact, reviewing the jet fighter project and no decision on it had been made. Japanese officials said Uno urged Baker to process a license quickly and notify Congress of the technology export. The Japanese have said they want to start the project before March 31, the end of their fiscal year. A memorandum of understanding on the FSX was signed last November by U.S. and Japanese officials. Once the administration finally certifies the agreement, Congress would have 30 days in which it could vote to disapprove the deal. Fueling the controversy over the FSX was an article Jan. 29 in The Washington Post by Clyde V. Prestowitz, a former Commerce Department official and outspoken advocate of a hard-line U.S. stance in negotiations with Japan. Prestowitz said the deal would increase the U.S. burden of defending Japan ``by diverting scarce Japanese defense dollars ... from immediate procurement needs into a 10-year project.'' Also, he wrote, ``it will transfer technology developed at great expense to U.S. taxpayers at very low cost to a country whose primary interest is not defense but catching up with America in aircraft and other high-technology industries.'' Alvin A. Spivak, a spokesman for General Dynamics, responded that under the deal American industry _ including the No. 2 U.S. defense contractor and other companies _ will receive 35 percent to 45 percent of the $1.2 billion being spent on development of the FSX as well as a comparable share of the $5 billion production program. The agreement offers a chance ``to provide jobs for American workers and to bring many hundreds of millions of dollars into the American economy that otherwise would stay in Japan if they were to develop their own fighter aircraft,'' he said. On Capitol Hill, Sen. Alan J. Dixon, D-Ill., called the FSX deal a ``terrible mistake.'' He said he hoped Congress will be able to ``discourage the administration from following this course before we have a bitter fight about it.'' Sen. Alfonse M. D'Amato, R-N.Y., said bluntly about the deal: ``It stinks. ... It's about time we had the courage to stand up and say we're not going to take this any longer'' D'Amato said if the agreement goes through, ``what will take place is that 10 years from now, they (the Japanese) will build the superior airframes, they will have the superior technology that we've helped them obtain by turning over some of our technical base as well in this deal.'' In the House, Rep. Mel Levine, D-Calif., said he was ``very disturbed'' about the FSX technology transfer. ``We can't prevent the Japanese from building their own domestic aerospace and defense industries,'' he said. ``But I see no reason for us to hand them the blueprints at a very modest price.''
<relevant> Two executives of an air conditioner manufacturer were arrested today for selling the Soviet Union a chemical used in missile guidance systems, police said. Tsugio Uesaka and Yoshimichi Udagawa of Daikin Industries Ltd. were arrested for forging export documents and selling nearly pure halogenated hydrocarbon to the Soviet Union, police officials in Osaka said Exports of the solution in concentrated form to communist countries are prohibited under Japanese law and under an international agreement regulating the sale of high-technology products to Soviet bloc nations. Halogenated hydrocarbon, a compound commonly used in fire extinguishers, can also be used as a coolant for guided missiles, analysts say. Daikin, a major air conditioner maker based in Osaka, apologized for the illegal exports but denied any responsibility for the sale, saying the two executives had acted independently. ``It is regrettable that two employees of our company were arrested,'' Daikin General Manager Tadashi Shibai told a news conference. ``But I don't believe they were aware that they were violating the law.'' Police said the two executives approved exports of the chemical solution with a purity of more than 99.8 percent to the Soviet Union between February 1986 and May 1988. Uesaka, head of the company's inspection section, submitted fraudulent export declarations which understated the product's purity, police said. Government permission is not needed for exports of the chemical with purity levels of less than 99.8 percent. Udagawa, head of the administration and planning section, and Uesaka have not been formally charged. They were arrested for violating the Foreign Exchange and Export Control Law. The company began exporting the high-grade chemical to the Soviet Union in 1979 after receiving special permission from the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Control, an international organization regulating the flow of high-technology goods to communist bloc countries. However, it soon halted the exports when the international body reinstated an export ban following the Soviet military intervention in Afghanistan. In 1987, Toshiba Machine Co., a subsidairy of Toshiba Corp., was charged with illegally exporting sophisticated computerized milling equipment to the Soviet Union. The case created widespread public outrage in the United States. The U.S. government subsequently imposed sanctions on the company, including a three-year prohibition on exports to the United States. In April, two small Japanese trading firms were charged with illegally exporting sophisticated digital testing equipment to China, leading to the arrest of three company officials. The case is still pending.
<relevant> The ``t'' issues _ Taiwan, Tibet, trade and technology transfer _ are on the table when President Bush sips tea with Chinese leaders this weekend. Bush's two-day visit to Beijing, starting Saturday, was to stress the positive aspects of Sino-American relations that have developed since the two nations established diplomatic ties 10 years ago. Bush, who headed the U.S. liaison office in Beijing for more than a year in 1974-75, was to be given an effusive welcome as an old friend of China. But the first bilateral summit since President Reagan visited in 1984 also offers both sides a chance to vent some touchy issues, and discuss the quickly improving ties between China and its longtime adversary, the Soviet Union. ``They'll be lightly skipping over a number of issues rather than boring in on one issue,'' said one U.S. official, who spoke on condition he not be named. Among the issues: _ Taiwan. Chinese leaders insist that Taiwan remains the most serious problem in Sino-U.S. relations. Beijing says Washington should play a more active role in bringing about a peaceful reunification of Taiwan with the mainland, and condemns continued U.S. arms sales to the Nationalist government on Taiwan, estimated at $700 million in 1987. ``Some prominent Americans still cling to the hope of long-term control of Taiwan as an `unsinkable aircraft carrier,''' Guo Xiangzhi of the Taiwan Research Institute in the Academy of Social Sciences wrote in a recent article. The United States has welcomed the lessening of tensions across the Taiwan Straits in the past several years, particularly Taiwan's decision to ease travel and trade restrictions with the mainland. But it says the Taiwan question is one for the Chinese to solve themselves. Taiwanese groups in the United States have urged Bush to back self-determination for Taiwan when he meets Deng Xiaoping and other Chinese leaders. The Taiwan government has expressed concern that China will push Bush into a mediator role. _ Tibet. The United States supports Chinese claims to sovereignty over Tibet, but has concerns over alleged human rights violations in China's suppression of pro-independence disturbances in Tibet over the past 18 months. China rejects criticisms of its human rights record, and says U.S. congressional resolutions on Tibet are unwarranted interference in its internal affairs. ``It is regrettable that a few people in the United States still make unfair criticism on China's internal affairs, and even want China's affairs to be done according to their will,'' China's U.S. ambassador, Han Xu, said recently. _ Technology transfer. China is the only nation classified as ``friendly and non-allied'' by the U.S. export control system which is also subject to national security and COCOM controls when acquiring technology with potential military uses. Both the United States and the 16-nation COCOM, Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Control, which oversees exports to communist states, have moved to reduce the list of items which must be reviewed before being sold to China. But China, which badly needs Western technology for its modernization drive, says liberalization of exports has been too slow. ``This has not only inflicted losses on China but also tied the hands of American enterprises and weakened their competitiveness in the Chinese market,'' Vice Foreign Minister Zhu Qichen said. The United States for several months last year froze further liberalization of export restrictions in reaction to Chinese arms sales to Iran. _ Trade. Bilateral trade soared to about $13.5 billion last year, up from $10 billion in 1987, according to U.S. figures. But China accuses the United States of protectionism, particularly against Chinese textiles, and the United States complains about lack of adequate protection for copyrights. The United States supports China's application to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, but is urging China to first further reform its trading system to make its goods more competitive and less dependent on government subsidies. _ International issues. Bush said his visit is not meant to upstage Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who comes to Beijing in May for the first Sino-Soviet summit in 30 years. U.S. officials also say they welcome the normalization of long-strained Sino-Soviet relations, which will allow both nations to concentrate on economic reform. The Chinese say their improved relations with the Soviets will not affect Sino-American ties. The United States and China both oppose Vietnam's occupation of Cambodia. Bush is likely to ask the Chinese to ensure that withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia will not lead to the Khmer Rouge's return to power. Thirty-one U.S. Congress members asked Bush in a letter to urge China to stop aiding the Khmer Rouge. The Khmer Rouge are blamed for the deaths of 1 million of their countrymen during their bloody 1975-78 rule over the country. China has said it will cease aiding the Khmer Rouge when Vietnam ends its 10-year military presence in Cambodia. Bush and the Chinese leaders are also likely to discuss tensions on the Korean peninsula. China is close to the communist North and the United States has troops in South Korea. The Middle East, Central America and the future of China's market-oriented reforms as it tries to overcome economic overheating and inflation also were expected to be dealt with.
<relevant> Members of Congress asked the Commerce Department on Monday to explain why testing of Western-made high-definition television equipment in the Soviet Union wouldn't violate laws prohibiting the transfer of advanced technology to the Soviet bloc. Reps. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., and Don Ritter, R-Pa., said in a letter to Commerce Undersecretary Paul Freedenberg they were concerned ``about affording the Soviet Union access to advanced television cameras, displays, video recorders and signal processing technology'' that could ``result in the transfer to the Soviet Union of sensitive technology that has potential for both military and commercial applications.'' The Soviet Union has offered to conduct the first side-by-side tests of competing HDTV technologies being developed in Japan, the United States and Europe. The Soviets say the tests would be an objective assessment of the differing systems and could speed development of a single system for worldwide use. At hearings earlier this month before the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on telecommunications and finance, which is chaired by Markey, questions were raised about possible violations of export-control accords. HDTV, which promises motion-picture quality images, has a number of potential uses, including entertainment, medicine, education and the military. The Commerce Department has jurisdiction over COCOM, the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Control, which is an international watchdog agency regulating the flow of high-technology products from Western nations to the communist bloc. Markey and Ritter asked Freedenberg to report back within 30 days on whether advanced television technologies are subject to the COCOM restrictions and if they had been approved for transfer to the Soviet bloc. Their letter asked Freedenberg to spell out ``what actions the Commerce Department and other federal departments, agencies or entities presently are taking or, prospectively, will take to ensure that HDTV or advanced television technologies, if they are prohibited technologies, are not transferred to the Soviet Union or other Eastern bloc nations by domestic or foreign entities.'' They also asked Freedenberg to outline how Commerce determines what is prohibited by COCOM and how the United States monitors adherence to the accords by other nations. Ken Robinson, a policy adviser in the Commerce Department's National Telecommunications and Information Administration, said agency officials could not comment on the letter until they had seen it. But he noted that Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher, during a recent appearance before the subcommittee, ``said he was not in favor of exporting potentially strategic sensitive technology to the Eastern bloc.'' Mosbacher also told the subcommittee his department had not agreed to any such transfers, Robinson said.
<irrelevant> CIA Director William Webster says Libya recently experienced a serious toxic spill at chemical weapons production facilities as the country rushes toward large-scale manufacture of mustard gas and nerve agents. Webster told the Senate Government Operations Committee on Thursday that the spill occurred at Rabta, some 60 miles southwest of Tripoli, but he provided no other details. He said that while such problems are expected to continue, Libya is on the verge of producing a chemical weapons capability far in excess of any realistic military needs, posing the possibility such weapons could be transferred to Middle East nations with past links to terrorists. Webster based his statements on intelligence estimates. Webster said the Libyan facility is the largest single factory complex in the Third World capable of producing chemical weapons. Iraq's overall chemical weapons potential is thought to be larger still, he said. ``We are concerned that the plant's production capabilities far, far exceed what Libya could use for its own military purposes,'' Webster said. ``Therefore it becomes a potential brokering agent for other countries,'' in the Middle East with links to groups which may have past terrorist intentions, he said. He did not elaborate. Webster said the Libyan chemical complex is linked to a nearby metal fabrication facility ``equipped with the precision materials to manufacture components for a variety of bombs and artillery.'' ``Other facilities are involved with filling and storing chemical weapons,'' he said. Repeating previous U.S. assertions, Webster said West German companies have given Libya extensive assistance to assemble the chemical complex and provide materiel for it. In a related development, Senate Republican leader Bob Dole of Kansas predicted a ``strong American reaction'' unless West Germany quickly cracks down on companies helping Libya develop chemical weapons and enacts tough domestic laws to control the export of chemical weapons technology and material. Dole said he delivered that message Thursday to Wolfgang Schaeuble, chief of staff to West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, during a meeting in his Capitol office. ``West Germany is among our strongest allies and we can't afford to have this important issue _ on which we should share the same view _ divide us,'' Dole said. Dole is pressing for congressional passage of legislation imposing sanctions on foreign firms which help Libya and other Third World nations develop chemical weapons. He said firms providing such assistance have been both witting and unwitting about the ultimate nature of the Libyan facility. Asked why a Western company would knowingly help Libya and other Third World nations achieve a chemical warfare potential, Webster said: ``I can only surmise that greed is the explanation.''
<irrelevant> Nearly a million Americans depend on the export of farm goods for their jobs, according to an Agriculture Department study. In calendar 1987, an estimated 903,000 jobs were generated by U.S. agricutural exports valued at $28.6 billion. More than a third of the nation's harvested cropland was used to produce for foreign buyers. William Edmondson of the department's Economic Research Service said farmers and their workers accounted for about 380,000 of the jobs linked to exports. The other 523,000 were outside the farm sector but were directly or indirectly related to the processing and distribution of farm exports. Edmondson, whose analysis was prepared for the March issue of Farmline magazine, said the total business activity created by farm exports far exceeds the actual sales. By his reckoning, each dollar received from agricultural exports in 1987 stimulated another $1.65 of output in the U.S. economy. ``For example,'' the report said, ``farmers buy machinery and chemicals to produce exported crops. Cattle producers buy feed to produce exported animal products. And farm products need to be processed, packaged and transported to their destinations.'' As a result, the nearly $29 billion in agricultural exports in 1987 was said to fuel an additional $47.2 billion in supporting activities. ``This additional economic activity included $7.2 billion in the farm sector, $3.7 billion in the food processing sector, $15.2 billion in other manufacturing sectors, $5.8 billion in trade and transportation, and $15.3 billion in other services,'' the report said. Farm exports have long been regarded as a major force in the U.S. economy, ranging far beyond the fields and granaries of farmers themselves. In the early 1980s, when exports were considerably larger, the impact was even greater. ``In the peak year of 1981, when $43.3 billion worth of exports were sold, export-related employment was estimated at 1.2 million, about a third higher than the 1987 figure,'' the report said. ``U.S. farm exports fell by about a third between 1981 and 1986.'' The Agriculture Department says the U.S. wheat stockpile will be whittled down this spring to one of the smallest inventories since the end of World War II. By June 1, the beginning of the 1989-90 wheat marketing year, the inventory may be about 534 million bushels, the smallest since the mid-1970s, the department's Economic Research Service said Tuesday. That would be less than half of the June 1, 1988, carryover of 1.26 billion bushels. Measured against total use, the June 1 wheat reserve of 534 million bushels would be about 21 percent of the 2.56 billion bushels consumed domestically and exported in 1988-89, the lowest stocks-to-use ratio since the 17 percent of 1973-74. ``Prior to that, the last time the stocks-to-use ratio was below 20 percent was at the end of World War II,'' the report said. The average farm price of wheat in the 1988-89 marketing year is forecast to range from $3.65 to $3.80 per bushel, more than $1 above last season. In the early 1970s, the Soviet Union bought huge amounts of U.S. wheat, which helped drain off the stockpile. By the end of the 1973-74 marketing year, the wheat reserve was down to 340.1 million bushels, compared with total needs that year of 1.97 billion bushels. Drought cut into the 1988 wheat harvest, and there has been brisk export demand the past couple of years. Plantings of winter wheat last fall for the 1989 harvest were up sharply, but the crop has been hurt by dry conditions in large areas of the Great Plains. ``The increase is attributed to higher wheat prices and the lowering of (federal program) acreage reduction requirements from 27.5 percent to 10 percent,'' the report said. Winter wheat accounts for about three-fourths of total U.S. wheat production, with the remainder coming from spring-planted crops. The report said, ``Plantings of the 1989 spring wheat and durum crops in coming months are also expected to be up sharply.'' Production of farm-grown catfish in January was an estimated 26.9 million pounds, up 4 percent from a year ago, according to a monthly report by the Agriculture Department. Prices paid to growers averaged 78 cents per pound, up 10 cents from January 1988, the department's Agricultural Statistics Board said Tuesday. The January price received by processors for dressed, whole fish averaged $1.61 per pound for ice pack and $1.72 for frozen fish. Imports of freshwater catfish during December, the most recent month listed, totaled 182,000 pounds, down sharply from 464,000 pounds a year earlier, the report said. Seventy-seven percent of the imports were from Brazil.
<irrelevant> The Commerce Department said Thursday it has lifted export restrictions on a variety of goods and technology that had been controlled for national security reasons for more than 25 years. The technology and materials, many of them commonly available, now can be shipped out of the country without prior approval by the Commerce Department. They include general industrial equipment such as lathes and presses, photographic equipment, servo-control units, synchronous motors and a broad range of industrial chemicals. ``This brings our export controls more closely in line with those of our allies and improves the competitive position of U.S. exporters,'' said Michael Zacharia, assistant secretary of commerce for export administration. ``These changes focus controls on equipment with real potential for military use by our adversaries, while at the same time reducing unnecessary burdens on American businesses that export technology products,'' he said. The action was required under the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act, which directed the Commerce Department to remove restrictions on items upon which only the United States imposed national security controls, unless the United States was the only source or was seeking similar controls from its allies. Some items will continue to be controlled because of regulations related to nuclear non-proliferation and foreign policy concerns.
<irrelevant> The Soviet Union will cut oil exports by about 5 percent in the first half of this year, Tass said. The move is part of an effort by non-OPEC producers to shore up world oil prices by cutting or freezing exports. The action was announced Friday by Vladimir Arutyunyan, chairman of the Soyuzneftexport All-Union Foreign Trade Association, which markets Soviet petroleum products abroad, the official Soviet news agency said. The announcement indicated a change in Soviet thinking about oil exports. In November, the deputy oil minister, Vladimir Filanovsky, said the country planned to continue increasing exports in the face of falling world prices because it needed the foreign currency. Tass quoted Arutyunyan as saying the oil exports will be reduced by about 5 percent in the first six months of 1989 compared with the same period last year. The Soviets export an estimated 1.8 million barrels of oil a day. A 5 percent reduction would mean a cut of 90,000 barrels daily in export sales. In trading Friday, energy futures prices declined in volatile trading, with crude oil soaring toward the $19-a-barrel level before technical selling set in. Analysts in New York said the brief rise came after the Soviet Union, Mexico and Egypt _ producers outside the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries _ all announced the 5 percent reduction in exports. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the April contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark U.S. crude, settled 16 cents lower at $18.56 a barrel, after rising as high as $18.88 at one point during Friday's session. Earlier this week, oil producers outside OPEC met in London to coordinate output with the 13-member oil cartel. At the end of the meeting, a majority of the countries pledged to freeze or reduce their exports during the second quarter of 1989 in an attempt to shore up world oil prices. The Soviet Union reportedly told the other countries it was unsure whether it would reduce exports, but that if it did, it would notify them Friday. The Tass dispatch quoting Arutyunyan was distributed late Friday in Moscow. According to the CIA's 1988 ``International Energy Statistical Review,'' of the amount of oil the Soviets exported daily in 1987, 7,000 barrels went to the United States, 243,000 to Finland, 209,000 to France, 302,000 to Italy, 142,000 to the Netherlands, 199,000 to West Germany, 130,000 to India and 20,000 to Japan.
<irrelevant> Members of Congress are voicing concern over the Bush administration's delay in naming an official to head a newly reorganized drive to assist U.S. industry with high-technology innovation. In addition to the absence of a permanent appointee to the new post of Commerce Department undersecretary for technology, the effort also is being hampered by lack of money for a key program at the department's National Institute of Standards and Technology. ``I'm deeply concerned about it,'' said Rep. George E. Brown Jr., D-Calif., who closely follows technology issues on Capitol Hill. ``I would say that at this point the administration has not got their act together: first, in terms of making the key appointments that would be involved in policy in this area; and, of course, establishing the policy framework necessary to be able to go ahead.'' Brown is a member of the House science, research and technology subcommittee, which is set to hear testimony Tuesday by Ernest Ambler, who last December was named acting undersecretary for technology but is planning to retire at the end of March. At his confirmation hearing in January, Commerce Secretary Robert A. Mosbacher said the role of the undersecretary for technology ``is an extremely high priority'' and that he was concerned about U.S. capability in high technology. So far, however, Mosbacher has been unable find a willing candidate for the undersecretary job, which pays $82,500 a year. Brown said a number of people _ including Mary L. Good, chairwoman of the National Science Board, which oversees the National Science Foundation _ had been offered the post but had turned it down. Rep. Don Ritter, R-Pa., said the failure to implement a pay raise for Congress, the judiciary and top federal executives apparently figured in the decisions by several people who would have had to take a substantial cut from their private-sector incomes. Under a reorganization plan approved by Congress late last year, Commerce's new Technology Administration includes: _The Office of Technology Policy, a policy analysis and development organization; _The Office of Commercial Affairs, which promote cooperative joint ventures with U.S. industry in areas of research and technology development; _The National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST, which works in areas ranging from automated manufacturing, electronics and materials research to computer science and technology, building and fire research, and biotechnology; _The National Telecommunications and Information Administration, responsible for developing federal telecommunications technology policies; _The National Technical Information Service, which disseminates the results of government-sponsored research. Ambler said in a speech last month that the office of the undersecretary for technology ``is a catalyst, a friend, a forum, a listening post and a voice in Washington for technology-based industry.'' At the same time, he emphasized that ``it is the job of the private sector to develop and sell goods and services. Government has never been successful in showing industry how to do its job, and there is absolutely no reason to think that will change in the future.'' Legislation passed last fall also established within NIST an Advanced Technology Program, intended to be a civilian counterpart of the Pentagon's highly touted Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The program is designed to coordinate development of emerging-technologies and manufacturing-research consortia; foster industry, government and university partnerships, and monitor cooperation between federal and regional agencies. However, so far the program has no funding either for this fiscal year or in the fiscal 1990 budget. Brown said that in the absence of leadership by the administration on issues related to civilian technology, ``we may go ahead with proposed legislation which would compel them to start focusing on this.'' ``What we also need are some short-term decisions having to do with selecting targets of opportunity and providing some funding for civilian advanced technology projects this fiscal year,'' the California Democrat said. Ritter, who serves along with Brown on the science, research and technology subcommittee, said that after a meeting last Wednesday with Mosbacher, he is optimistic about the longer-range prospects for developing the Technology Administration into an effective agency. ``I think that given the feelings of the secretary of commerce, it's going to be an important new feature on the landscape,'' the Pennsylvania Republican said. ``I think he's committed to it. He just has to get people to work for him.''
</top>
