<top>
<num> 51
<title> Airbus Subsidies
<relevant> The Senate Finance Committee voted 18-0 today to recommend confirmation of attorney Carla Hills as U.S. trade representative, a job she said she would use to open global markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``You have done well and you have answered with more specifics than I have normally heard from a person being confirmed,'' Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, told Mrs. Hills as the panel prepared to vote. ``They usually fudge their answers more.'' Mrs. Hills also vowed that she and her attorney husband would each take measures to make certain that she would never be faced with a conflict of interest in her new role as the nation's top trade negotiator. She said she would divest herself of any business ties that could raise such a problem. Mrs. Hills stressed that she would ``not hesitate to act when necessary and appropriate to fight unfair trade practices of foreign governments.'' ``Retaliation cannot be the goal of our policy,'' she said. ``In fact, it signals the failure of our efforts to open foreign markets. But the credible threat of retaliation provides essential leverage in our market-opening efforts. Thus, actual retaliation will be used, albeit reluctantly, to preserve the credibility of of this threat.'' At another point, Mrs. Hills said she would prefer to settle trade dispute with a handshake and a deal. But she said that when negotiations fail to do the job she will not hesitate to retaliate and open markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' Mrs. Hills, a Californian, served in the Ford administration as secretary of housing and urban development. She has been practicing law in Washington since then. When she was named to the trade representative's post, Bentsen issued a statement saying he had hoped for someone with more experience in problems of global markets. Before the committee, however, Mrs. Hills impressed senators with her detailed knowledge of complex issues ranging from plywood trade between the United States and Canada to American complaints about European government subsidies for the jetliner manufacturer Airbus Industrie. ``I think you are going to be a terrific trade representative,'' Sen. Jay Rockefeller, D-W.Va., told her. She also made a point of living up to her advance billing by supporters as a tough negotiator. ``Make no mistake,'' declared Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., ``this is a gentle lady, but this lady has the guts of a lion.'' ``We have to have our agreements enforced,'' Mrs. Hills testified. ``And where our partners are violating our agreements we must take action.'' ``Were I to say one thing to the Japanese today, it is: we must have results,'' she said at another point.
<relevant> A Senate committee recommended Friday that attorney Carla Hills be confirmed as U.S. trade representative after she assured lawmakers she would fight to open global markets ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``We have to have our agreements enforced,'' said Mrs. Hills before the Senate Finance Committee voted 18-0 to recommend confirmation. ``And where our partners are violating our agreements we must take action,'' she added. President Bush's nomination of the Washington attorney and former housing and urban development secretary now goes to the full Senate for a vote on confirmation. No date has been set. Mrs. Hills would succeed Clayton K. Yeutter, who has been tapped by Bush for secretary of agriculture, in the job of top U.S. trade negotiator. Before the committee, Mrs. Hills sought to dampen concern that she could become vulnerable to conflict-of-interest charges because she and her attorney husband, Roderick Hills, have represented foreign law clients. ``Let me address the question of potential conflicts of interest right away,'' she said. ``There are none.'' She promised that she and her husband would divest themselves of any business interests that could present such a conflict and that she would keep hands off any cases involving her former clients. Senators seemed satisfied. ``I think you're going to make a terrific trade representative,'' Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV, D-W.Va., said. A witness who appeared briefly before the panel, however, Anthony Harrigan, president of the U.S. Business and Industrial Council, argued that her involvement with foreign clients made it impossible for Mrs. Hills to avoid a conflict. Several lawmakers took issue with him. Mrs. Hills told the committee that she would prefer to open foreign markets with negotiations and a handshake. But she added that she would seek to do so ``with a crowbar if necessary.'' ``Retaliation cannot be the goal of our policy,'' she said. ``In fact, it signals the failure to open foreign markets. But the credible threat of retaliation provides essential leverage in our market-opening efforts. Thus, actual retaliation will be used, albeit reluctantly, to preserve the credibility of this threat.'' Bush's choice of Mrs. Hills initially brought a statement from Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen, D-Texas, that he had hoped for someone with experience in international markets for the post. Bentsen had a more enthusiastic response when she appeared Friday before his committee. ``You have done well and you have answered with more specifics than I have normally heard from a person being confirmed,'' Bentsen said. ``They usually fudge their answers more.'' She discussed complex trade issues ranging from plywood exports to European government subsidies for the Airbus Industrie jetliner manufacturer. Supporters of Mrs. Hills have been assuring lawmakers that she has the toughness to represent America in difficult trade battles. ``Make no mistake,'' said Sen. Pete Wilson, R-Calif., ``this is a gentle lady, but this lady has the guts of a lion.'' Her tough-minded style found encouragement among panel members, with Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., saying he found ``a touch of naivete'' in Bush's vow to work for ``a kinder and gentler'' America. ``The world is not necessarily kinder and more gentle when it comes to international trade,'' Baucus said. ``There's a state of near economic war.''
<relevant> Cathay Pacific Airways announced Tuesday that it has placed a firm order with Airbus Industrie for 10 A330-300 aircraft and has taken options on another 10 of the wide-body planes. The firm order is worth about $1.1 billion, and if all the options are exercised, the order would total about $2.2 billion, the Hong Kong airline said. The first of the planes will be delivered in January 1995, with delivery scheduled to be completed in 1997. The purchase is the largest single Airbus order by a Far Eastern airline, Cathay Pacific said. Airbus Industrie is a European aircraft-making consortium sponsored by the governments of Britain, France, West Germany and Spain. ``This huge investment demonstrates Cathay Pacific's commitment to Hong Kong and our confidence in the territory up to and beyond 1997,'' Cathay Pacific Chairman David Gledhill said, referring to the year when Hong Kong is scheduled to change from a British colony to part of mainland China. ``It also reflects our confidence in continued growth in the marketplace in Hong Kong and the Asian region.''
<relevant> Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter says U.S. negotiators held the line during trade talks in Geneva last week, regardless of how the final agreement is worded. Moreover, he said, the U.S. export subsidy program _ which provides reduced prices for selected commodities in certain overseas markets _ was a key factor in putting leverage into the negotiations, particularly in getting approval from the European Economic Community. The EEC had balked at the earlier U.S. insistence that all trade-distorting agricultural subsidies be eliminated over the long haul. The agreement reached in Geneva by more than 100 countries calls for a ``substantial progressive reduction'' in such subsidies. Yeutter, in an interview Monday with a group of reporters, said the Europeans objected to earlier language calling for the ``elimination'' of the subsidies and later to a modified ``ratcheting'' down of them. Asked if the final language represented backtracking on the part of the United States in its quest to do away with trade-distorting subsidies and other practices, Yeutter replied: ``I don't consider it backtracking at all.'' He maintained that there is no practical difference between ``elimination'' or ``ratcheting'' or the accepted ``substantial progressive reduction'' of subsidies, regardless of what some European leaders may feel. ``They may have their own reasons for articulating the outcome of the meeting as they have,'' Yeutter said. ``Obviously, everyone will go home and, to some degree, at least, articulate their own interpretation in a way that fits their own particular needs.'' The accord reached in Geneva provides a framework for further discussions under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, a four-year effort called the Uruguay Round of talks to liberalize global trade. The current GATT round will conclude at the end of 1990. As part of the Geneva agreement, participants agreed to an overall freeze on farm supports and import barriers through 1990. Yeutter said the U.S. goal is to gain long-term accord on the future of agricultural trade and that the short-term agreement reached in Geneva, while acceptable, was no big challenge for U.S. negotiators. Some American farm leaders, including Dean Kleckner of the American Farm Bureau Federation, had urged Congress to proceed writing a new general farm bill on an assumption that little progress could be expected under the GATT talks. Yeutter said he had no objection to Congress proceeding with a new farm bill to replace the 1985 law that will expire next year. And Yeutter denied that he had favored going slow on legislation until it was clearer how the GATT talks would shape up. ``Somehow that got misinterpreted ... because that's not really what I meant at all,'' Yeutter said. ``Assuming that (GATT) negotiations are a success, the 1990 farm legislation will have to be modified accordingly in 1991,'' he said. ``But I never meant to indicate that we shouldn't have full-scale farm legislation in 1990.'' On the matter of U.S. export subsidies used in the Export Enhancement Program, or EEP, Yeutter said it is ``our view that we are not constrained on EEP expenditures.'' Yeutter said further that he still favors Congress removing the lid on EEP spending so that the United States can match the unrestrained export subsidies of the Europeans. The program, he said, was a major factor in reaching the agreement in Geneva last week, along with aggressive negotiating and general leverage. ``In the absence of this combination of leverage _ with the EEP program providing a great deal of that leverage _ we very likely would not have an agreed framework in Geneva today,'' Yeutter said. In a written statement later, Yeutter repeated his earlier insistence that the United States ``will continue to aggressively seek elimination of trade-distorting measures'' during the remainder of the Uruguay Round. A background sheet said that in the short-term the United States ``in a general way'' is committed not to increase price support and protection for American farmers. Specifically, it said, ``We are committed not to intensify market access barriers or raise support prices to producers, subject to the condition that the commitment be consistent with existing legislation.'' The paper added: ``Our assessment is that this will not require us to do anything differently from what we are now doing. For 1990, our 1985 farm legislation requires cuts in some support prices.''
<relevant> The Bush administration says no final decisions have been made on which countries should be targeted for possible retaliation because of unfair trading practices, but other sources say Japan and the European Community are sure to be on the list. Rep. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon, said Friday he had learned that the Economic Policy Council, chaired by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, was recommending to President Bush that the administration include Japan on the list for its barriers to the sale of American wood products. The list is expected to be released perhaps as early as Tuesday. The New York Times reported Friday that the Japanese would likely be cited for failing to open their market to the sale of U.S. supercomputers. The newspaper said that the 12-nation European Community could possibly be included as well for government subsidies to Airbus, the government-backed aircraft manufacturer. The newspaper said that Brazil and India were also being considered for including on the list of priority nations because companies in both countries are allowed to pirate U.S. patents, copyrights and trademarks. Christina McCowan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, refused to comment on the paper's list of countries other than to say that the final list of countries and products had yet to be determined. At the White House, deputy presidential spokesman B. Jay Cooper said that the matter was still ``under interagency review. It has not gone to the president yet.'' Under the Omnibus Trade Act of 1988, the administration must issue by May 28 a list of countries that maintain persistent trade barriers that impede American sales. Those countries would be targeted for intensive negotiations over the next 18 months with the threat of retaliation against their exports to the United States if no agreement is reached to remove the barriers. While the list must be submitted to Congress by Ms. Hills, the decision on what countries and products to include will be made by Bush. The administration has been under heavy congressional pressure to name Japan to the list because of that country's huge trade surplus with the United States, which last year totaled $52 billion, 44 percent of the $119.8 billion total U.S. trade deficit. The compilation of a priority list of countries was mandated by the massive rewrite of the country's trade law which Congress passed last year. The provision, known as Super 301 for the section containing the requirement, has turned out to be the most controversial provision in the 1,000-page law. It has triggered sharp disagreement even within the administration with the president's chief economic adviser, Michael Boskin, warning that vigorous enforcement of the provision ran the risk of counter-retaliation by other countries which could plunge the world into a global recession. Both South Korea and Taiwan figured prominently in an initial list of 34 countries with barriers against U.S. products which Ms. Hills issued three weeks ago. It is from that list that the final priority list of negotiating targets will be drawn up. A congressional source, who spoke on condition his name not be used, said there was a good likelihood that South Korea and Taiwan would be kept off the final list because of concessions they have already made. On Thursday, Ms. Hills announced that South Korea had agreed to a number of market-opening actions which the United States had been seeking. In addition, the trade representative's office announced Friday that Korea had agreed to open its market to imports of many agricultural products, ranging from poultry parts to bourbon, in three stages between July 1989 and January 1991. Ms. Hills called the agreement ``a positive first step'' but said many U.S. products still would be restricted or banned in Korea. ``I am prepared to take action on these products if Korea's liberalization process does not continue,'' she said.
<irrelevant> Braniff Inc. on Wednesday announced a bold stroke designed to put the regional airline in closer competition with the nation's major carriers, saying it will acquire 50 Airbus Industrie A320 planes and has options to get another 50 in a deal valued at up to $3.5 billion. The deal could nearly triple the fleet size of Braniff, a carrier with 53 jets that has endured three changes of ownership, a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization, a major recapitalization and the transfer of its major operations to Kansas City from Dallas in the past six years. The airline has vowed to become a more competitive force in the industry. ``Today's announcement, I think, takes us a giant step forward toward making that goal a reality,'' William McGee, Braniff's chairman, told a news conference in New York. The move also represents one of the largest single orders for jets produced by Airbus, a European aircraft consortium that has emerged as a major competitor against the U.S. giants of the industry, Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. The Airbus A320 is a 150-seat, highly efficient aircraft used widely to replace aging jets, which requires only two pilots in the cockpit rather than the customary three. It was unclear how Braniff's acquisition of these planes would affect previously disclosed plans to acquire 23 Boeing 737s from AMR Corp., parent of American Airlines. ``It's a sizable infusion of new capacity in Braniff,'' said Robert Joedicke, an airline analyst for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. ``It will certainly allow Braniff to rationalize and modernize their fleet and be much more competitive.'' Braniff currently operates 25 Boeing 727s, 10 Boeing 737s and 18 BAC-111s, built by British Aerospace PLC. Last June, investment group BIA-COR Holdings Inc. acquired Dallas-based Braniff for $100 million from Dalfort Aviation Inc., which is owned by the Pritzker family of Chicago. Through the investor group, PaineWebber Inc. controls a majority stake in the airline. The group appointed five top executives from Piedmont Airlines to manage Braniff. McGee, who had been Piedmont's chairman, helped build that airline into the nation's ninth-largest carrier, and one of the most profitable airlines, before it was acquired by USAir Group Inc. in 1987. Kevin Murphy, who follows the industry for Morgan Stanley &amp; Co., suggested that the current team at Braniff could be beefing up the airline in preparation for selling it. ``Our principal objective is to grow Kansas City,'' McGee told the news conference, referring to Braniff's main hub. He said the airline may introduce international service from Kansas City as well as first class service on existing flights. McGee said he expects Braniff to join the ranks of the airline majors _ as measured by $1 billion or more in annual revenue _ within a year and a half. The carrier should become profitable by the end of this year, the Braniff chief projected. Another airline analyst, who asked not to be identified, said Braniff needs to guard against getting too big _ the predicament which prompted its bankruptcy in 1982. ``You don't try to dance with the elephants,'' he said. McGee confirmed reports that the deal includes 16 planes originally intended for Pan Am Corp., which recently decided to scrap an order of A320s in exchange for a $115 million payment from Airbus. Pan Am had a firm order for 16 of the aircraft and an option on 34 more. In a separate statement Wednesday, Pan Am also confirmed that it had transferred the Airbus order to Braniff and announced that it will buy up to four new Airbus A310-300 long-range planes instead. ``While the A320 is a fine aircraft, our current route structure and our near-term scheduling plans do not require introduction of this aircraft type at this time,'' Pan Am Chairman Thomas G. Plaskett said. Engines for the Airbus planes, which are included in the price, will be supplied by IAE International Aero Engines, a consortium of U.S., British, West German, Japanese and Italian engine makers which is based in East Hartford, Conn. The U.S. partner is Pratt &amp; Whitney Aircraft of East Hartford. The deal would be worth the $3.5 billion only if Braniff exercises options to acquire all 100 planes. Airbus will sell the first 42 planes to a financing group, which will in turn lease them to Braniff. Airbus will have to make its own financing arrangements for the other eight in the first group of 50. The members of the financing group are GPA Group Ltd. of Shannon, Ireland, an aircraft leasing company which has an option to buy 10 percent of Braniff; Airbus; and the engine supplier, IAE.
<irrelevant> Braniff Inc. announced a bold stroke designed to put the regional airline in closer competition with the nation's major carriers, saying it will acquire 50 Airbus Industrie A320 planes and has options to get another 50 in a deal valued at up to $3.5 billion. The deal announced Wednesday could nearly triple the fleet size of Braniff, a carrier with 53 jets that has endured three changes of ownership and a Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization. The move also represents one of the largest single orders for jets produced by Airbus, a European aircraft consortium that has emerged as a major competitor against Boeing Co. and McDonnell Douglas Corp. Borden Inc. put corporate raiders on notice that if an unwanted buyer tries to chop up the food and chemical giant, Borden's 25 top managers will quit en masse under an unusual takeover defense. ``We think any potential raider would think twice about losing that group at once,'' R.J. Ventres, Borden's chairman, said Wednesday. Borden already has a ``poison pill'' plan designed to fend off unwanted suitors. General Motors Corp. Chairman Roger Smith says the world's largest automaker expects to post a record profit for 1988. Speaking Wednesday at the annual auto show here, Smith declined to provide a specific figure. GM's previous record year was 1984, when the automaker posted earnings of $4.52 billion on sales of $83.89 billion. For 1987, GM had a profit of $3.55 billion on revenue of $101.78 billion. Smith also predicted the Big Three _ GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. _would earn a record $11 billion in 1988, but did not break it down by company. Conflicts built into the system of regulating savings institutions ought to be eliminated to help prevent a repeat of the current wave of S&amp;L failures, a top federal bank regulator said. L. William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures deposits in commercial banks, said Wednesday the fund that insures S&amp;L deposits should be independent in the same way as his agency. Orders to U.S. factories for manufactured goods rose by a modest 0.3 percent in November, according to a government report that some economists said reflected continued but slower economic growth. The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that buyers placed orders worth a seasonally adjusted $227.7 billion during the month, up $630 million from October. Orders had risen 2 percent in October. The nation's chief tax collector has urged Americans to file returns early this year and said the IRS for its part will fully respect a new ``taxpayer bill of rights'' and try to provide filers better advice. Lawrence B. Gibbs, commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, said Wednesday that the taxpayer-rights bill is ``a good bill.'' The legislation requires the agency to fully inform taxpayers of their rights any time an audit is begun. Another provision extends the notice required before the IRS can seize property.
<irrelevant> European trade representatives say they will seek permission to slap stiff duties on U.S. imports of dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against sanctions against European products. Any such approval would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the European Economic Community sparked by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, an EEC spokesman, said Thursday that representatives of the 12 nations making up the Common Market trading bloc will be given a proposal calling for the retaliatory measures. The plan, drawn up by the bloc's executive body, the European Commission, will be offered to counter sanctions the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. American officials have raised the possibility of taking more actions against the Europeans if the trading bloc strikes back. Wegter said the proposal recommends imposing 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and walnut imports from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, Wegter said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, averaged $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The commission's proposal does not set a date for application of the tariffs but recommends they be put in place as soon as possible. The trade fight was set off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect.
<irrelevant> European officials tentatively agreed Thursday to slap stiff duties on imports of American dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against recent U.S. sanctions against European products. Representatives of the 12-nation European Economic Community left it to their nations' foreign ministers to formally approve the measures and set the date for application of the higher tariffs. The foreign ministers will meet Jan. 23 in Brussels. ``The hammer is raised, but it won't actually fall until the ministers decide, (giving) time for the Americans to show a little understanding,'' said an official of a member nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Formal approval of the sanctions would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the Common Market trading bloc, which was touched off Sunday by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. The United States retaliated against the meat ban by imposing, also on Sunday, higher tariffs on a variety of European products. Alan Holmer, deputy U.S. trade representative, said in a satellite broadcast from Washington that ``it's presidential decision'' whether the United States would take further retaliatory measures against any European sanctions. ``There would be very strong support in the U.S. government for taking that kind of action if we were to reach that point,'' he told foreign journalists in a program sponsored by the U.S. government. ``But frankly we hope we won't have to reach that point and that the (EEC) will not take any kind of counter-retaliatory steps in the next several weeks,'' he said. The European officials also tentatively decided to allow meat shipped from the United States before Sunday to enter the Common Market until the end of the month. Officials said it was hoped that the United States would allow a similar grace period for sanctioned products from Europe. Under the tentative plan, the EEC would impose 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and unshelled walnuts imported from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, he said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, registered an annual average of $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The trans-Atlantic conflict was set off by the EEC enforcement of the ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. ``The (community) has failed to present any evidence that a proper application of the growth-producing hormones in question pose any threat to human or to animal health,'' Holmer said. ``We as yet have seen no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the (EEC) hormone ban and as a result we feel it necessary to protect U.S. trade interests,'' he said. The meat ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, pork hams and shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect. Holmer reiterated that the United States would like the Common Market to turn the dispute over to a special GATT panel for resolution but that it has so far refused to do so. The Canadian government also has not gone along with the meat ban. Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina have agreed to ship meat from untreated cattle to Europe. EEC members are France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<irrelevant> The National Pork Producers Council has formally asked the U.S. government to impose import duties on pork products from Canada, claiming the Canadian meat is subsidized and competes unfairly with American hog farmers. Council President Ray Hankes said Thursday a petition was filed Jan. 4 with the U.S. International Trade Commission and the Commerce Department asking that countervailing duties be imposed on fresh, chilled and frozen pork products from Canada. State pork associations and a number of U.S. meat packing companies also signed the petition. A ruling on the council's petition is expected in about six months, he said. ``A countervailing duty would eliminate the unfair advantage Canadian farmers have over U.S. pork producers because the Canadian government subsidizes its hog production,'' Hankes said in a statement released here. ``Canadian pork producers can benefit from more than 20 potential subsidy programs.'' There has been an import duty on live hogs from Canada since July 1985, a move upheld by the U.S. Court of International Trade during a lengthy appeals process. But the American producers contend the import duty on live hogs doesn't prevent Canada from slaughtering its hogs and shipping the pork to U.S. markets. The Commerce Department ruled in 1985 the import duties on pork products were justified. The U.S. Court of International Trade, acting on an appeal by the Canadian Meat Council, overruled the Commerce decision. As a result, Canada has increased its shipments of pork into the United States by more than 52 percent since 1984, Hankes said. The council also said imports of Canadian pork have reduced the revenues of U.S. hog producers by as much as $3.37 per 100 pounds of hogs marketed in the first nine months of 1988, according to a study by economist Glenn Grimes of the University of Missouri. Overall, the imports from Canada were said to cost American producers as much as $697 million in lost revenues last year. The Agriculture Department said imports of Canadian pork products in 1988 totaled a carcass weight equivalent of 440.2 million pounds through Dec. 3, according to Canadian government figures. That compared with 501.5 million pounds for all of 1987 and 313.9 million pounds in 1984. Kevin Bost of the department's Economic Research Service said in a telephone interview the countervailing duties on live hogs from Canada have trimmed the imports sharply, from more than 1.3 million head in 1984 to around 650,000 to 700,000 head last year. Shipments may be around 700,000 head in 1989, he said. According to USDA figures, American hog farmers produced around 15.6 billion pounds of pork in 1988, an estimate of carcass weights after slaughter. The forecast calls for a slight increase this year. The Agriculture Department says private exporters have sold the Soviet Union an additional 390,000 metric tons of U.S. wheat at subsidized prices. Melvin E. Sims, general sales manager for the department's Foreign Agricultural Service, said Thursday the wheat was part of 2 million tons authorized Dec. 23 under the Export Enhancement Program, or EEP. The wheat was bought under a long-term supply agreement with the United States, now in its sixth year. Sims said the wheat is for shipment in January and February. Counting some wheat left over from previous EEP arrangements, the Soviets have about 1.2 million tons still available under the program. The Soviet Union bought more than 9 million tons of wheat under EEP arrangements during the fifth year of the grain agreement. The pact expired last Sept. 30 but was later extended through Dec. 31, 1990. With the latest sales, the Soviets have bought about 760,000 tons of U.S. wheat for delivery in the sixth year of the pact. Sales also include 10.2 million tons of corn, along with some soybeans, soybean meal and sorghum. Only the wheat is subsidized, however. The EEP arrangement allows exporters to sell wheat and other designated commodities to specified countries at reduced prices in order to meet foreign competition. The exporters then collect free government surpluses of grain or other products as bonuses, or subsidies. A metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. The 390,000 tons of wheat would be about 14.3 million bushels. Sims said the wheat sales will carry an average subsidy rate of $22.83 per ton, or about 62 cents per bushel. He said the bonuses on the 390,000 tons of wheat will be paid to five companies: Cargill Inc., 100,000 tons; Toepfer International Inc., 50,000; Ferruzzi USA Inc., 150,000; Richco Grain Ltd., 50,000; and Peavy Co., 40,000. Farmers have signed enough fragile land into a long-range conservation program to reduce annual soil losses by nearly 600 million tons, according to the Agriculture Department. Wilson Scaling, chief of the department's Soil Conservation Service, said Thursday that about 28 million acres have been contracted under the Conservation Reserve Program, or CRP. The goal is to retire 40 million to 45 million acres of highly erodible land from crop production by 1990. An agency spokeswoman, Leslie Wilder, said the 600 million tons of soil saved each year would be enough to cover one square mile, or 640 acres, to a depth of 429 feet. Under the program, farmers agree to take qualified land from crop production for 10 years. In return, they get federal assistance to plant the land in protective grass or trees and then draw annual rental payments. Those average around $49 per acre each year.
</top>
<top>
<num> 52
<title> South African Sanctions
<relevant> Widely ignored and usually docile, South Africa's black homelands are producing a new generation of leaders frustrated with limited autonomy and demanding a bigger role in shaping the political future. The authoritarian tribal chiefs who have long ruled the 10 homelands are being replaced or challenged by younger men, who view their territories as key partners in a united South Africa rather than isolated tribal reservations. ``The youth see the homelands differently than their parents, and it is not attractive to them,'' said Gen. Bantu Holomisa, the 33-year-old military ruler of Transkei. Transkei in 1976 was the first homeland to become independent from South Africa. ``We have been given a raw deal (by South Africa), and we won't settle for that again,'' Holomisa said in a recent interview in Umtata, Transkei's capital. No foreign governments recognize the homelands, including the four that South Africa classifies as independent _ Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda and Ciskei. Anti-apartheid activists dismiss the homelands as the illegitimate offspring of apartheid, which denies South Africa's black majority a voice in national affairs. The homelands have little industry, scarce arable land and are heavily dependent on South African financial aid. They are largely ignored both in South Africa and abroad, although they have more than 13 million residents _ about half South Africa's black population. Holomisa and other like-minded homeland leaders concede they lack leverage when they ask the South African government for a role in negotiating political change. But their goal of a unified South Africa directly challenges the foundation of the ethnic-based homeland system designed by Hendrik Verwoerd, South Africa's prime minister from 1958 to 1966. Verwoerd sought to make all black South Africans citizens of the remote homelands, granting them local autonomy while whites controlled the national economy and government. A conservative, older generation of tribal chiefs accepted self-government in the 1960s and 1970s, receiving financial benefits and the support of South African security forces. In return, the chiefs have neither instigated nor tolerated anti-apartheid activism. However, younger leaders see the territories only as an interim step on the road to a black government in South Africa. ``In our own territory, we have tried to ... promote our own agenda and unequivocally to destroy the (apartheid) structure,'' Enos Mabuza, the 49-year-old leader of the KaNgwane homeland, recently told the magazine Leadership. ``Our objective is that (KaNgwane) should be part of South Africa, if not now, then in the long term,'' he said. Mabuza has risked the wrath of the South African government by maintaining contacts with leaders of the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla movement, the largest organization fighting the government. He describes the ANC as ``a key actor, perhaps the most important actor'' among black political organizations. He also has refused ``independence'' for tiny KaNgwane, near South Africa's eastern border with Mozambique. The South African government would like all 10 homelands to become independent as part of its policy of racial separation. Critics say the government wants to fragment the black population and decrease its political clout. Only four homelands have opted for independence, and none has chosen that route since Ciskei in 1981. Several developments in the past year suggest growing anti-apartheid activism in the homelands and a general discontent with the system. _In KwaNdebele, voters in December overwhelmingly ousted all 16 Parliament members up for election, including Chief Minister George Mahlangu. The defeated incumbents supported independence plans for the small patch of arid territory outside Pretoria that is home to about 300,000 people. _In Bophuthatswana, dissident army officers launched a coup attempt Feb. 10 against President Lucas Mangope, who has led the homeland since it was declared independent in 1977. The group that kidnapped Mangope was led by an anti-independence politician, Peter Metsing, who remains at large. South African troops rescued Mangope and restored him to power hours after he was captured. _In Venda, a nominally independent homeland in the far north, students and workers staged a highly effective general strike in August to protest an alleged government cover-up of ritual murders. _In KwaZulu, homeland leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha political organization is locked in a power struggle with the now banned United Democratic Front, a nationwide coalition of anti-apartheid groups. More than 1,000 have died in black-on-black faction fighting around the cities of Pietermaritzburg and Durban in the past two years. Buthelezi, the best known homeland leader, is a critic of apartheid and was an ANC member years ago. But many activists view him as too conservative due to his current condemnation of the ANC and his refusal to support confrontational tactics such as economic sanctions, consumer boycotts and strikes. In Transkei, Holomisa says he does not pursue contact with the ANC because it would invite economic punishment from the South African government. Nonetheless, he says ``there will never be genuine change without the ANC'' and other major anti-apartheid groups. Holomisa stresses that many of Transkei's most pressing problems are economic, not political. Located on the Indian Ocean coast, Transkei is a visually spectacular collection of rolling hills, winding rivers, and waterfalls. But 95 percent of the people live in impoverished rural settlements, and 80 percent are illiterate. Infant mortality is high, and life expectancy is low. Most men who have jobs work outside the homeland and either have long daily commutes or are far from their families most of the year. Because Transkei is not recognized internationally, it receives no economic aid except from South Africa. ``South Africa's racial policies have hurt us,'' said Holomisa. ``But international sanctions also make us suffer. There are human problems here that can't be wished away by pretending we don't exist.''
<relevant> Mrs. Thatcher was given to bluntly reminding her fellow Europeans in NATO or the European Economic Community of their reliance on U.S. military and diplomatic power. This has revived complaints that the British cling to old trans-Atlantic ties and are unenthusiastic Europeans. Reagan's style provoked amusement, concern or jibing among British opposition parties and in newspapers. But not even in strict confidence would Thatcher aides utter a word of criticism of the president. Reagan and Thatcher have disagreed on economic issues like the U.S. deficit, and she had misgivings about the missiles deal. But they're obviously fond of each other, call each other Ron and Margaret, and share some basic instincts, like their faith in the free market and a strong defense, and their hatred of socialism. ``You have restored faith in the American dream,'' Mrs. Thatcher told Reagan last summer when he paid a farewell presidential visit to Britain. He said of the British leader who has been in office throughout his two terms: ``We're very good friends and it is a friendship I treasure very much.'' WASHINGTON _ The Reagan administration looked as if it was going to come up empty on its southern Africa policies until Chester Crocker, the assistant secretary of state, pulled out an 11th hour peace agreement on Angola. Until Crocker, a former Georgetown University professor, helped negotiate the peace agreement last month, he was best known as the architect of the administration's policy of ``constructive engagement.'' It called for the United States to use diplomatic pressure to force the white-ruled government of South Africa to change its policies of racial segregation, called apartheid.. ``Constructive engagement,'' no longer part of the State Department's official lexicon, was not a success. South Africa's policies remain virtually the same, with blacks denied political and social rights. In the United States, ``constructive engagement'' was the target of criticism and ridicule. And opponents of South Africa mounted a campaign which resulted in legislation in 1986 providing for economic sanctions against the white regime. They provided for a ban on new investments, a prohibition on the import of certain South African products and the suspension of South African commercial landing rights in the United States. Reagan's veto of the sanctions was overridden decisively. In Angola, where the Reagan administration and South Africa had supported rebels seeking to overthrow the Cuban-backed Marxist government, Crocker was more successful. After months of mediating delicate negotiations, South Africa, Cuba and Angola signed an agreement under which Angola pledged to send home 50,000 Cuban troops posted in Angola. At the same time, South Africa granted independence to South-West Africa, the continent's last colony. It will become the black-ruled nation of Namibia. In sum, it was a mixed record for the Reagan administration. _By Joan Mower WASHINGTON _ With U.S. encouragement, much of Latin America has undergone an unprecedented political transformation from dictatorship to democracy over the past decade but the region is nonetheless worse off economically now than when the generals were in charge. Reagan and Shultz have repeatedly hailed the democratic development in the hemisphere. Nonetheless, the same economic forces that swept the dictatorships from power during the 1980's are now threatening the emerging democracies. In some countries, the possibility of a military coup is not ruled out. As Reagan leaves office, the potential political and economic consequences of continued stagnation, partly the result of the region's huge foreign debt, could become one of the major hemispheric challenges for the new administration. President-elect Bush has called for a ``major review'' of existing policy on debt, the centerpiece of which is the so-called Baker plan, named for former Treasury Secretary and Secretary of State-designate James A. Baker III. The plan calls for economic reforms in the debtor countries and new public and private lending from the developed countries to meet their capital needs. But lending has been far below what had been expected when the plan was unveiled three years ago. Hemispheric countries over the past five years have shelled out more than $120 billion in debt repayments than they have received in new loans. Repayments on the region's $420 billion debt have meant that decades of hard-won gains for some countries have been wiped out. The region has been denied capital needed for investment and imports vital for production have been cut back sharply. Inflation and high unemployment are rampant. The list of countries which have made the shift to democracy or are in the process of doing so since 1979 is impressive: Argentina, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay, El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala. But in virtually all of these countries, the popular base of the incumbent administrations has been eroding, reflecting the difficulty they have in dealing with the consequences of excessive borrowing in the past. Increasingly, Latin leaders see debt relief as perhaps the only way their countries can restore economic growth and to prevent yet another lost decade. _By George Gedda WASHINGTON _ Reagan's departure coincides with the start of a six-year term by a new Mexican president, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, offer both countries a fresh opportunity for a more harmonious relationship. Reagan met frequently with former Mexican President Miguel de la Madrid and the two got along well but the same cannot be said for officials at the lower level. The two governments disagreed sharply over Central America, particularly Nicaragua, where Mexico was viewed by administration officials as perhaps the most stalwart non-communist backer of the leftist Sandinista government. Elliott Abrams, the outgoing assistant secretary of state for Latin America, concedes that the ``ideological tone'' of Mexico's foreign policy over the years left the administration ``very unhappy.'' U.S. officials angered Mexico by suggesting that official corruption was hampering that country's drug enforcement efforts. Mexico felt the Reagan administration failed to appreciate the sacrifices its security forces made to come to grips with the drug issue. Drugs remain a potent issue. Mexico is believed to provide 30 percent of the marijuana and 40 percent of the heroin reaching this country. Immigration is another divisive issue. The Reagan administration maintained that unwise Mexican economic policies forced millions of Mexicans to cross the border illegally. Mexico's view is that the immigration is the result of the U.S. demand for cheap labor, which it claims American policies fail to take into account. On the economic front, Mexico has maintained that paying the interest on its $107 billion foreign debt makes growth impossible. When Bush takes office, Mexico will be eagerly awaiting some sign that he will be amenable to a policy under which Mexico's debt servicing obligations might be matched to its payment capacity. Mexico has felt for years that its debt is the primary cause for a steady decline in Mexican living standards during the 1980s. _By George Gedda
<relevant> Michigan officials followed the letter, but not the spirit of divestiture when they went on an 11th-hour buying spree, snapping up South African-related stocks days before a ban on such investments took effect. Treasurer Robert Bowman ordered the December purchases on behalf of the state's $15.7 billion pension fund. They came just before a new law went into effect on New Year's Day and banned new investments of state pension funds in companies with South African ties. ``It makes me sick. It clearly goes against the spirit of the law,'' said Thea Todd, co-coordinator of the Michigan Leadership Coalition for South Africa Divestment. ``He didn't violate anything, that's clear, but if he were clearly in the spirit of it, he wouldn't go out and buy right at the end,'' said state Sen. Dan DeGrow, a sponsor of the measure designed to protest apartheid. The stock buy was part of $902 million in purchases made through a fund that buys in a single package all 478 stocks listed on the Standard and Poors 500 index, Bowman said, adding that three-fourths of the stocks listed in the index have no South Afican ties. A review of the index indicated at least 94 companies were on a list released by Bowman last week of companies believed to have South African ties and are now off-limits for state investments. ``The goal was not, of course, to buy companies that would ultimately be proscribed, but this is our last chance to buy the index fund,'' he said Wednesday. ``The spirit of the law wasn't violated because the treasurer didn't cherry pick any specific stocks and buy them. To violate the spirit of the law would be to go out and buy index firms we knew had South African ties,'' said Robert Kolt, Bowman's spokesman. Topping the list of stocks bought of companies with South African ties was IBM, $34,469,961 worth. Others included General Electric Co., $19,374,122; American Telephone &amp; Telegraph Co., $14,986,177; General Motors Corp., $12,514,653; Ford Motor Co., $12,075,821. Bowman said the state had been in and out of the Standard and Poors fund over the last 18 months and he decided in December to beef up its stake in the stock market. ``We moved money into the index fund. It's a way to move a lot of money into the stock market and bet on the stock market,'' Kolt said, adding that the treasurer's office has a responsibility under the law to maximize the return on its investments, as well as divest of South African stocks. Thomas Scott, a spokesman for Gov. James Blanchard, who endorsed the law, said Bowman's actions don't indicate the administration lacks commitment to divestiture. ``The governor expects and has no reason to believe otherwise that the divestiture law he and Treasurer Bowman pushed for will be carried out according to the full spirit and letter of the law,'' Scott said. The new law bars the pension fund from buying stock in companies that have ties to South Africa, and gives it five years to sell off stock in those companies, which totals $5 billion. The law also applies to 45 municipal pension funds.
<relevant> A group of black Americans vowed Monday to revitalize efforts to promote closer ties between the administration of President-elect George Bush and African nations. The African American Institute, meeting in Lusaka, sought a greater understanding of African problems in the United States, according to Randolph Nugent, the chairman of the institute's board of trustees. Nugent told about 175 conferees in a welcoming address that the institute believed U.S. administrations viewed Africa from a short-term perspective. ``Our aim is to help bring Americans and Africans together to help America take a long-term view of African problems,'' he said. Zambian President Kenneth Kaunda opened the four-day gathering by urging world nations to focus more attention on the African debt crisis. He cited burgeoning debt and South Afrca's policy of apartheid as the ``root cause'' of conflict and suffering on the continent of 550 million people. Kaunda said many of the world's most heavily indebted nations were in Africa but little was done by developed countries to offest their loan burden. Between 1985 and 1987, African nations relying on exports of raw materials for hard currency income lost an estimated $50 billion through depressed commodity prices on world markets, he said. He chided unspecified Western nations for failing to impose tougher trade sanctions against South Africa to end apartheid. Some Western leaders argue that sanctions would harden white South African resistance to change and hurt blacks the most. Among conferees from the United States and 17 African nations was the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Sen. Paul Simon, D-Ill., chairman of the African Affairs subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is expected in Lusaka on Tuesday. The New York-based African American Institute holds a convention in Africa every two years.
<relevant> Attackers wielding knives, clubs and shotguns killed five men outside the Indian Ocean port city of Durban, police said today. Another group of blacks tossed firebombs and raided a home outside the city of Pietermaritzburg, stabbing to death a 17-year-old woman and injuring a 20-year-old woman, police said. Both black-on-black attacks occurred in Natal province, where more than 1,000 blacks have been killed in faction fighting in the past 18 months. The sketchy police unrest report, which covers incidents from the previous 24 hours, did not release any additional details. The main combatants in the faction fighting are Inkatha, a political organization headed by Zulu leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, and the United Democratic Front, the nation's largest anti-apartheid coalition. The front was banned in February. Buthelezi also opposes apartheid, but many United Democratic Front supporters view him as too conservative because he participates in the government's homeland system and refuses to endorse confrontational tactics such as economic sanctions, boycotts and protests. Buthelezi accuses the front of supporting the bombing and sabotage campaign waged by the outlawed African National Congress guerrilla movement. Under apartheid, South Africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools and districts.
<irrelevant> European trade representatives say they will seek permission to slap stiff duties on U.S. imports of dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against sanctions against European products. Any such approval would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the European Economic Community sparked by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. Nico Wegter, an EEC spokesman, said Thursday that representatives of the 12 nations making up the Common Market trading bloc will be given a proposal calling for the retaliatory measures. The plan, drawn up by the bloc's executive body, the European Commission, will be offered to counter sanctions the United States put into effect Sunday to retaliate against the European meat ban. American officials have raised the possibility of taking more actions against the Europeans if the trading bloc strikes back. Wegter said the proposal recommends imposing 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and walnut imports from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, Wegter said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, averaged $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The commission's proposal does not set a date for application of the tariffs but recommends they be put in place as soon as possible. The trade fight was set off by the enforcement on Sunday of an EEC ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. The ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, hams and pork shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect.
<irrelevant> European officials tentatively agreed Thursday to slap stiff duties on imports of American dried fruit and walnuts to retaliate against recent U.S. sanctions against European products. Representatives of the 12-nation European Economic Community left it to their nations' foreign ministers to formally approve the measures and set the date for application of the higher tariffs. The foreign ministers will meet Jan. 23 in Brussels. ``The hammer is raised, but it won't actually fall until the ministers decide, (giving) time for the Americans to show a little understanding,'' said an official of a member nation, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Formal approval of the sanctions would escalate a trade dispute between the United States and the Common Market trading bloc, which was touched off Sunday by a European ban on imports of American meat treated with growth hormones. The United States retaliated against the meat ban by imposing, also on Sunday, higher tariffs on a variety of European products. Alan Holmer, deputy U.S. trade representative, said in a satellite broadcast from Washington that ``it's presidential decision'' whether the United States would take further retaliatory measures against any European sanctions. ``There would be very strong support in the U.S. government for taking that kind of action if we were to reach that point,'' he told foreign journalists in a program sponsored by the U.S. government. ``But frankly we hope we won't have to reach that point and that the (EEC) will not take any kind of counter-retaliatory steps in the next several weeks,'' he said. The European officials also tentatively decided to allow meat shipped from the United States before Sunday to enter the Common Market until the end of the month. Officials said it was hoped that the United States would allow a similar grace period for sanctioned products from Europe. Under the tentative plan, the EEC would impose 100 percent tariffs on dried fruit and unshelled walnuts imported from the United States. An earlier list had included honey and canned corn. Total EEC imports of walnuts, mostly to Germany, averaged $58.8 million annually over the 1985-87 period, he said. Dried fruit imports, mainly to Germany and Italy, registered an annual average of $37.8 million during that period. Dried fruit products include apples, pears, apricots, peaches, prunes and papayas. The trans-Atlantic conflict was set off by the EEC enforcement of the ban on imports of meat from cattle treated with growth hormones. The trading bloc wants to prohibit for health reasons all meat from such animals. The ban is expected to halt the importation of about $100 million worth of beef and beef byproducts from the United States, some of which are used in pates and sausages. Meat used to make pet food is exempted. U.S. officials contend the use of certain hormones to fatten cattle, a common practice among American farmers, does not pose a health risk. ``The (community) has failed to present any evidence that a proper application of the growth-producing hormones in question pose any threat to human or to animal health,'' Holmer said. ``We as yet have seen no scientific evidence whatsoever to support the (EEC) hormone ban and as a result we feel it necessary to protect U.S. trade interests,'' he said. The meat ban was to have taken effect Jan. 1, 1988, but the trading bloc agreed to delay it for a year. It has since refused American appeals for yet another postponement. The meat imports represent a small portion of the estimated $166 billion in trade between the United States and the Common Market. In retaliation for the meat ban, the United States on Sunday imposed 100 percent duties on boneless beef, pork hams and shoulders, prepared or preserved tomatoes, instant coffee, fermented alcoholic beverages containing less than 7 percent alcohol by volume, certain fruit juices, and certain packaged pet food made from grains. The sanctions are worth about $100 million. The Common Market has filed a complaint with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to protest the U.S. sanctions. The 96-nation GATT is both an agreement and a forum for ensuring the free movement off goods around the world. The complaint was filed in November before the sanctions went into effect. Holmer reiterated that the United States would like the Common Market to turn the dispute over to a special GATT panel for resolution but that it has so far refused to do so. The Canadian government also has not gone along with the meat ban. Australia, New Zealand, Brazil and Argentina have agreed to ship meat from untreated cattle to Europe. EEC members are France, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom.
<irrelevant> The horrible deaths by poison gas of nearly 1 million soldiers in the trenches of World War I so shocked the world that in 1925 a group of nations agreed never to use such weapons again. But this week's Paris conference reviewing the agreement takes place with a clock grimly ticking. Each year, observers say, the list of countries owning and developing chemical weapons grows. And the use of such weapons lies in the not-so-distant past. Under strong international public pressure, the 1925 Geneva Protocol was reached banning the use of chemical weapons, and 118 countries signed up. Sixty-four years later, delegates at the conference are reviewing the violations of the ban over the years and discussing ways to give it meaning and teeth. The 1925 protocol covers only use. Most delegates here agree the world also needs to ban development, production and storage of toxic agents. They also agree some organization, maybe the United Nations, should be able to check that countries are abiding by the ban and that those violating it should be punished. The need for an expanded international agreement on chemical and biological arms has been recognized for a long time. Negotiators have been meeting periodically to come up with an accord for 17 years. When the last meeting in Geneva of the ad hoc committee on chemical weapons under the U.N. Conference on Disarmament closed April 28 last year, nothing was ready to sign. Optimists said a convention might be ready in another couple of years. President Reagan, speaking to the U.N. General Assembly last fall, called for the international conference. President Francois Mitterrand, speaking a few days later, agreed to host it. The 150 countries meeting in Paris hope they can find enough common ground by Wednesday's close of their five-day meeting to issue a final document sending a clear political message to the negotiators: The world wants a new accord. The United States and the Soviet Union admit to having thousands of tons in storage, but experts say at least 20 other countries either have poison arms or will before long. Countries that have chemical weapons sell them to others that don't, some experts at the meeting say. And possible customers include terrorist groups. ``Who wants chemical weapons?'' asked a U.S. expert, speaking on condition he not be named. ``I can't give you a list but I can give you a set of criteria: ``Anybody who's got a neighbor who has them. Anybody who has a resistence they want wiped out. Anybody with no chance of having nuclear weapons. There are 40 or 50 countries that meet that criteria,'' he said. Western officials say interest in developing toxic arms is keen in the Middle East. They say Iraq has used chemical weapons over the last five years and has more experience with toxic agents and developing ``delivery systems,'' than either the Soviet Union or the United States. Condemned by U.N. Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar, the Iraqi use of deadly poison is only the most recent example of repeated violations. Others accused of breaking the agreement include Italy in Ethiopia, Japan in China, Egypt in North Yemen, the United States in Vietnam, the Soviet Union in Afghanistan, Libya in Chad and, if Nazi gas chambers are included, Germany in the death camps of World War II. Intelligence sources say other countries having chemical weapons include Syria, Iran, Israel, Egypt, North Korea, South Korea and Taiwan.
<irrelevant> The government on Friday applauded a Pentagon report calling this country's leading anti-apartheid group a terrorist organization. But the government also said it was confused by a report released by another U.S. agency with a contradictory view. The Defense Department report, released Wednesday, listed the outlawed African National Congress among 52 terrorist organizations worldwide. ``As far as the South African government is concerned, the Pentagon report correctly analyzes terrorism,'' said Foreign Minister Pik Botha. However, the U.S. Information Service in Pretoria released a statement from the State Department in Washington that contradicted the Pentagon report. ``The U.S. government has not determined that the ANC is a terrorist organization,'' said the statement prepared by the State Department's Africa Affairs Bureau. The State Department supported the ANC's aims of ending apartheid and establishing a democracy, but it disagreed with the ANC's use of violence, the statement said. Apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. The 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. Botha described the State Department statement as ``somewhat confusing.'' He added, ``Nevertheless, the State Department acknowledges that the ANC's (violent) methods are unacceptable, and this is the decisive issue.'' The Pentagon said its booklet, which included a foreword by President-elect George Bush, was prepared as a reference work _ not as a policy statement. The booklet has prompted headlines in South African newspapers and angry condemnations of the United States by some anti-apartheid activists and organizations. Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu, the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize laureate who says he supports the African National Congress' goals but opposes violence, said he was ``shocked and dismayed'' by the Defense Department report. In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman said the group was included in the book because authorities wanted to warn Americans of the danger from the ANC and other organizations around the world. The spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. Jim Kudla, said the book had been ``fully coordinated'' with the State Department. But within the State Department, counterterrorism officials disagreed with professional diplomats, who wrote the statement contradicting the the Pentagon report and who are concerned with maintaining ties to South Africa's black majority. The South African government banned the African National Congress in 1960, and the group began a sabotage campaign one year later. There have been 180 bombings in South Africa during the 31-month state of emergency, killing 35 people and injuring at least 665 of all races. The government says it will not negotiate with the group unless it renounces violence. The congress says it had no alternative but to take up arms after it was banned as a peaceful organization.
<irrelevant> The gathering of 149 nations to condemn chemical weapons showed, if nothing else, how the world order of a short time back has been stood on its head. The old divisions so familiar to world affairs _ East-West, North-South, First World-Third World _ have given way to a baffling new array of converging interests. Diplomats seasoned by the Cold War and the anti-colonial winds of change watched the five-day meeting in amazement. The Soviets, clear winners in the charm category, tweaked the Americans for a lack of openness. The Americans aimed their ire at a friendly foe, West Germany. Western allies fought openly over which of their companies sold chemicals to Iraq, Libya and Syria, all regarded as past or potential users of poison gas. Romania bolted its bloc, taking a position directly opposed to the Kremlin's. A Soviet official merely smiled philosophically as he explained that the Romanians refused to follow orders. While chief Soviet delegate Viktor Karpov beamed benignly at the cameras, U.S. correspondents aimed barbs at his American counterpart. Retired Gen. William Burns, head of the U.S. arms control agency, admitted not knowing about new chemical warheads included in the U.S. budget made public, by coincidence, during the conference. Iran, whose representatives spoke eloquent English, stood firm with the industrial West against Middle Eastern states one U.S. delegate described privately as ``the whackos.'' Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Velayati echoed points made by the United States, the ``Great Satan,'' demanding in measured terms even more sanctions and condemnation of past acts than the Americans wanted. Although nations of the so-called non-aligned movement expressed token solidarity with the Arab League, hard-line Arabs had to back off linking bans on chemical and nuclear weapons for lack of real support. ``We're not buying that Arab League garbage,'' a Central American delegate said in private. ``You can't talk about a Third World and mean anything.'' Black Africans walked out again on R.F. Botha, the South African foreign minister, but this time Botha tossed away his speech and dramatically challenged them to admit in public their secret friendship with his country. Botha spoke of vaccines, health care, research and other aid his country provided, and asserted: ``My African brothers know this.'' He noted that agreements finally had been reached on independence for Namibia and South African withdrawal from Angola. Black Africans did not walk when those matters were settled, he said. ``We say no to hypoprisy,'' commented Foreign Minister Simeon Ake of Ivory Coast, the only black African to keep his seat. ``At least it gave Botha a chance to reveal his contacts.'' Under the ironies were signs of a world turning faster than many of its statesmen can measure. William Waldegrave, junior minister in Britain's Foreign Office, shrugged off the old distinctions in a chat with reporters: ``I am always confused over who is supposed to be First World or Third World when you start talking about rich Middle Eastern states.'' Most political analysts interviewed said the 109 speeches and secret negotiations showed old-style international dealings are poorly suited to a modern world. Countries condemned for spraying nerve gas on civilian populations directed the same rhetoric at chemical weapons as the those attacked. Everyone knew up to 30 nations at the meeting had chemical weapons but only the United States and the Soviet Union admitted having them. France, the host and arbiter of the moral tone, denied it firmly, despite the intelligence of its allies to the contrary. ``The problem,'' one Western analyst put it, ``is that you can't really say what you think: that there are responsible leaders and maniacs, and no international convention can differentiate among them.'' Several American delegates acknowledged that, despite the general tone and circuitous phrasing, their underlying concerns were specific: _Iraq had used poison gas to turn the tide of war against Iran and to terrorize its own Kurdish minority. Some other states seemed impressed by their success. _Syria had chemical warheads on Scud missiles directed at Israel, each capable of delivering deadly gas over a radius of a thousand yards. _Libya, helped by private West German companies among others, was completing a chemical weapons plant that could deliver toxic chemical agents to a broad range of terrorists. The Americans' concurrent goal, to focus attention on a new threat from Libyan leader Moammer Gadhafi, backfired by uniting the Arab League. A night of compromises produced a declaration with no mention of sanctions, export controls or verification. Lessons of the conference extended well beyond the subject at hand. Mainly, the old cliches and timeworn roles were falling away. At one point, a U.S. press officer introduced an American reporter to an arms negotiator who answered a broad range of questions, with hardly a pause to consider the implications of his remarks. Unlike most Americans at the meeting, the man was perfectly willing to be quoted. He was a Russian. Later, an American negotiator agreed with a point his Soviet rival had made, that the conference declaration was a political document with little specific or technical value. ``That's what we would say, if we could,'' he said, but explained that statements had to be cleared in Washington and some subjects were extremely sensitive. Then he added: ``But don't quote me.'' Mort Rosenblum has reported for The Associated Press for more than 20 years from Africa, Southeast Asia, Latin America and Europe. He is former editor of the International Herald Tribune and has written two books on international affairs.
</top>